Urumqi, 1 Feb (Xinhua) -- Over the past few years, in order to promote nationality solidarity and safeguard social stability, Xinjiang's Yili has launched in a creative way a "face-to-face" propaganda activity to let the people of all nationalities hear the voice of the party and government, and the activity has been warmly welcomed.
Located in the country's northwestern border, Yili has served as an important window during the country's opening up to the outside world.Since reform and opening up, Yili has developed the economy by a large margin and rapidly improved the people's livelihood.
However, restricted by communications and telecommunication conditions, a vast number of farmers and herdsmen living in the remote mountainous areas and rural areas have been unable to accurately learn in a timely fashion the party's and state's principles and policies.
In order to change this situation, in 1997, the Yili Prefecture CPC Committee took the lead in organizing and sending some 10,000 teachers, divided into various propaganda teams, deep into the rural and pastoral areas during the summer vacation to present the facts and reason things out for the masses.
In 1998, the Yili Autonomous Prefecture CPC Committee and the Yili Prefecture CPC Committee made unified arrangements and sent on a trial basis several propaganda teams deep into the schools, villagers' courtyards, and fields to carry out face-to-face propaganda among the people of all nationalities.
In 1999, on the basis of summing up experiences, they again extended the face-to-face propaganda activity from Yili Prefecture to Aletai and Tacheng; increased the number of the propaganda team members to more than 1,200 [as published]; held nearly 4,000 propaganda lectures in all, which were attended by as many as tens of thousands of people; and attained such desired results as "larger scale, longer duration, richer contents, and better results."
In order to ensure the propaganda standard, the Yili Autonomous Prefecture CPC Committee selected and transferred only those cadres with higher political quality, a higher policy and theoretical standard, and a stronger propaganda ability, who speak both the Han language and the ethnic languages concerned, as the propaganda team members.In accordance with such requirements, the prefectures and counties (or cities) concerned also set up propaganda teams level by level, each with three or four members, and placed the personnel concerned under centralized training for five to seven days.
In order to coordinate with the propaganda activity, the autonomous prefecture authorities and prefecture authorities especially organized personnel to compile and make the videotapes, cassettes, pictures, and materials concerned in the Uyghur language, the Kazakh language, and the Han language.
It was learned that while carrying out the "face-to-face" propaganda activity, the propaganda team members mainly explained the party's and state's nationality policies, rural policies, and religious policies and publicized the tremendous changes that had taken place in the local areas since reform and opening up.Each year, they would revise the themes and key topics of the propaganda activity in light of outstanding problems during different periods.
Apart from conducting propaganda by holding the parents' meetings, forums, and discussions, as well as in other forms, the propaganda teams also tried to make the propaganda activity as vivid and lively as possible for the masses, such as conducting propaganda at the Bazha (trade fair), Aken singing and playing performances, sports meets, theatrical performances, knowledge contests, and so on.
When giving a propaganda lecture at the Gegangou Pasture in Huocheng County, the propaganda team concerned especially staged an Aken singing and playing performance.Some people had hurried to the scene from areas some 30 kilometers away one day before.
As the propaganda activity was conducted in a way welcomed by the masses and with the local realities fully taken into account, it received an enthusiastic response from the masses.
In many rural areas, the masses sat on the grassland, in the football fields, or under the trees and conscientiously listened to the propaganda lectures.
While Abulimiti, deputy secretary general of the Yili Prefecture Administrative Office, was giving a propaganda lecture in a township in Yining County, it suddenly rained.
After listening to a propaganda lecture, given the strong atmosphere and appeal of the propaganda activity, some people would even follow the propaganda team to other villages where they would listen to the same propaganda lecture again.
"Thanks to this activity, we have heard about and watched a lot of things, including those we have never heard of or seen before.
We could easily understand what they said and learn a lot of things from them," sighed the masses in Yining County and Huocheng County, who had listened to the lectures.
An old man from Sadikeweizi Village of Sadikeweizi Township in Yining County firmly held a propaganda team member by hand, asking him to go to his house to give a lecture to his children.He said: "If only you had come here to give us propaganda lectures two years before!
We're illiterate, know very little, and cannot convince the young people.You've given a very good lecture.You should come here more often in future."
Yibulayin, a farmer from Alamutuya Village of Yingyeer Township in Yining City, said: "A country is just like a family and the government is just like a parent.If the parent often teaches his children, his children will make fewer mistakes."
The enthusiasm displayed by the masses in listening to the propaganda lectures also surprised those who gave the lectures.A propaganda team member later recalled: "I was deeply impressed by the atmosphere when I saw several hundred people quietly and conscientiously listening to my lecture.Thus, I talked more and more and better and better.
Jin Yulong, secretary of the leading Party group of the Yili Prefecture Farm Machinery Bureau, has also been greatly enlightened, saying: "In the past, I served as a deputy county magistrate for several years.However, I never carried out such face-to-face propaganda and education among the grassroots masses.
When I first came here, I thought that it would be difficult for us to gather the villagers together and even if we could gather them together, some of them would leave the site before a propaganda lecture ended.
Later on, when I saw our propaganda team welcomed by the masses wherever it went and a large number of people coming to listen to our propaganda lectures, I myself was greatly educated.
While carrying out the propaganda activity, the propaganda team members displayed a spirit of bearing hardships and enduring hard work.
In the Ganjiahu Pasture of Wusu City, the propaganda team members carried with them their own food and traveled by vehicles for several hundred kilometers for seven consecutive days, going into the households to give propaganda lectures.
In those seven days, in order to save time, they ate dry crusty pancakes and drank plain boiled water during the day and lived in the herdsmen's yurts at night.
Sometimes, they would especially rush to an area in order to give a propaganda lecture to only a few people.
Apart from sparing no effort to carry out the propaganda activity from village to village, the propaganda team members also find time to help the local people tackle difficulties and problems in their production and livelihood and joined them in fighting the floods and providing disaster relief.
In order to carry out the state strategy of greatly developing the western regions, the Yili Autonomous Prefecture CPC Committee and the Yili Prefecture CPC Committee have decided to continually expand the propaganda scale; enrich the propaganda contents; and train a propaganda contingent that will never leave the rural villages with an eye on stepping up grassroots organizations building.
Beijing, 28 Jan -- The Shuguang 2000-II SuperServer successfully developed by the State Intelligent Machinery Research and Development Center of the Chinese Academy of Science Computer Institute passed in Beijing today the specialists' appraisal conducted by the Ministry of Science and Technology.
Song Jian, vice chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and president of the Chinese Academy of Engineering, attended the appraisal meeting.
The Shuguang 2000-II SuperServer is a major achievement in the State 863 Project and in the knowledge innovation project of the Chinese Academy of Sciences.Effecting major breakthroughs in its key technologies and in realizing its production, this super-server has attained the advanced level that similar products in the world attained at the end of the 1990's, and has already edged into the international leading ranks in terms of machine operation systems.
High-performance computing is divided into scientific engineering computing and non-scientific engineering computing, with the latter including business processing and network information services, accounting for more than 90 percent of the total.
The traditional supercomputers are good at the scientific engineering computing only, while this super-server is good at both, thus being the mainstream of the high-end computers.
According to the statistics released in November 1999, among the world's 500 installed computers with the fastest theoretical operations speeds, 372 were super-servers, with their number tending to increase.
The peak floating-point Millions of Theoretical Operations Per Second [MTOPS] of this super-server is 110,000 range; its aggregate installed capacity is 50 gigabytes, which can be expanded to 80 gigabytes; and its aggregate disk size is more than 600 gigabytes, which can be expanded to several thousands of gigabytes.
With an advanced machines system set-up, this super-server is composed of 82 nodal computers and 164 processors.
The Shuguang 2000-II Super Server is equipped with abundant and complete software.
China has manufactured by itself a high-performance machine operation system that is supplemented with many kinds of popular high-class program languages and mainstream parallel programming environments and means.
To support its network information service, this super server is also installed with parallel network and e-mail service software, thus being able to support all kinds of popular database software.
Beijing, 4 Feb (Xinhua) -- The Chinese Government announced at the turn of the century that one of its economic priorities would be to speed up the development of its western parts.
Economists here maintain that the strategy of developing western China was a timely one.
The strategy for large-scale development of western China, which President Jiang Zemin put forth early last year, and the national economic conference held late last year and the State Council conference held last January on developing the west all show that large-scale development of western China had become a common understanding of central and local leading hierarchies across the country.
As early as in the eighties, Deng Xiaoping, the chief architect of China's reform and opening up program, already put forth the concept of coordinating the nation's economic development.
According to the concept, central and western China should first give consideration to the national interests by supporting the opening up and development of coastal areas in the east.
Then, when the east has reached a certain stage of development, it should help central and western China speed up its development with even more resources in return.
Moreover, owing to the deflation trend, the state has adopted certain active fiscal policies to boost the economy, creating the situation where the government can afford to support the development of the west with even more resources.
According to Zeng Peiyuan, minister in charge of the State Development Planning Commission, this year the government will draw up additional preferential policies for encouraging foreign businesses to invest in western China and will spend more loans from international organizations on construction projects in the west.
This year, the state will continue to tilt its investments toward western China, the next five-year plan will include a special plan for the development of the west, and the government will invest a larger percentage of money incurred from floating national bonds in projects in western China.
Meanwhile, the People's Bank of China is also working on a credit policy to be carried out in western China, and the China Development Bank will soon set up many branches in western provinces and regions in an effort to give western China greater financial support in its development.
According to the experts, China's economic development in recent years has been hindered by inadequate demand at home, and considerable portion of technology and labor are seeking new areas of production, new markets, and new areas of development.
On its part, the sprawling western China with rich natural resources offers enormous investment opportunities as well as market and development potentials.
The development of western China will provide vast areas for the nation's economic restructuring and industrial optimization and escalation.
China has basically addressed the problem of feeding the people.Its food supply is higher than demand.This has created the rare opportunity for the development of western China.
In the past, western China, in order to address its food problem, had to destroy its woodlands for subsistence, causing serious ravage to its environment.
The present food surplus can specifically serve the purpose of helping western China restore its woodlands, grasslands, and the beauty of its landscapes.
["Commentary" by XNA reporter Lu Yongjian (7773 3057 1696): "Development of West China Needs a Good Plan in the First Place"] [FBIS Translated Text] Beijing, 2 Feb (XINHUA) -- After the central authorities proposed that the development of West China should enter the concrete implementation stage this year, people from various social sectors, particularly the comrades in the western region, are extremely inspired and eager to make a big go at it.
Some localities have planned to increase investment, and others have begun returning land unfit for farming to forestry and animal husbandry, raising the curtain on ecological construction.Braving the piercingly cold wind, quite a few cadres from the western region went to the eastern and southern parts of the country, busying themselves with the introduction of projects.
At the time when the heat wave of developing West China gradually ran high, the recently established leading group for the development of the western region under the State Council held a meeting, at which it was pointed out that on the basis of thorough investigation and study, it is imperative to draw up a realistic and feasible overall plan and some special plans now, and include them into the Tenth Five-Year Plan for national economic and social development.
The reason why the central authorities have attached such great importance to the planning work for the western region development is that a good plan is the crux of making the first step toward the development of West China.
Our forefathers said: Preparedness ensures success, and unpreparedness spells failure, which means that in doing everything, it is necessary to make thorough preparations and well-conceived plans.
The large-scale development of the western region has a bearing on the overall situation of developing coordinated regional economy, promoting national unity, and maintaining social stability.
For instance, the land in West China accounts for more than one-half of the country's total, where construction of infrastructure facilities should be reinforced, construction of water conservancy and communication works is necessary, and construction projects of basic industries are indispensable too.
In respect of science, education, and qualified personnel, it is necessary to strengthen compulsory and elementary education, make a breakthrough in developing high-tech projects, import qualified personnel from other regions and, at the same time, train local talented personnel, bringing into full play the initiative of the existing talent.
In doing such heavy and complicated work, if we have not a good plan, it is hard to avoid running around in circles when the work is fully under way, and we may have to pay a considerably high price for the "remedies" after problems crop up, which will inevitably impair the entire process of the development.
The central authorities stressed that in developing the western region, things must be done in accordance with the scientific law, as the formulation of scientific and meticulous plans is both demanded by the intrinsic law governing the regional economic development, and has definite objectives in view.
Although there is no longer any phenomenon like the great leap forward which made rash advances in all aspects regardless of objective conditions, yet in our economic sphere, instances of redundant construction and blindly put up establishments occur from time to time, some of them are very serious.
Making a scientific plan will help maintain unflagging enthusiasm and enhance the prudent and rational spirit, so that good intentions will reap good results and the large-scale development of the western region will obtain great achievements.
It is precisely on the basis of summing up the experiences and lessons in the economic construction for years that the central authorities proposed that all the major construction projects of the western region development should be included in the plans for sufficient verification.
A scientific plan has both its guiding function and binding force.
Without the guidance of a plan, there will probably emerge such a tendency that those who are in power or who hold higher positions have the final say.
With a plan, however, the practices involving a lot of paper work, considerations for sensibilities, and protection of local interests can be avoided.
In short, making a good plan at the beginning of the construction is the crucial measure for reducing haphazard economic development.
To be authoritative, a plan must be scientific and conform to the objective reality.
Whether a plan is scientific or not involves many things, the most important of which is the backwardness of the western region in economic and social development.It was formed in history for a long period of time and needs a long process to change this situation.That is why we should make the best use of our time to take action for the western development while making full mental preparations for a long-term and arduous struggle.
In making plans, therefore, we should base ourselves on the present and have our eyes on the future, and combine the solution of the current outstanding problems with the realization of the long-term development objectives.Our plans should both reflect the spirit of emancipating the mind and positively forging ahead, and conform to the principle of seeking truth from facts and following the objective laws.In particular, adequate considerations should be given to the natural and geographical conditions and the actual circumstances of various localities.
To draw up an authoritative plan, we must also pay attention to coordination and comprehensive equilibrium.
For the western region development, various sectors, trades, and departments of the national economy are obligated to make plans.
In terms of ecological construction alone, the departments of forestry, water conservancy, agriculture, and land should participate in devising plans.Various departments must work in cooperation with division of labor, and the plans must be well linked and coordinated to avoid disharmony.
As a dozen provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions as well as the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps are involved in the western development, various localities, especially the neighboring provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions, must coordinate with one another in drafting plans.
If they only proceed from the interests of their own provinces, areas, or units regardless of the overall situation of the western development, they are unable to play a harmonious and resonant symphony for the development of West China.
It has been learned that the State Development Planning Commission and the State Forestry Bureau have jointly drawn up a preliminary plan on the construction of infrastructure facilities and the change of grain plots to other uses for ecological consideration, the experimental work for which will be carried out in selected spots this year.
There is a relationship of mutual promotion between experiments and plans, and between the selected spots and the entire areas, and the experience gained in the selected spots can serve the purpose of perfecting the plans and help carry out the work in a comprehensive way.
Judging from the current situation, various localities showed great initiative in making ecological experiments, the great majority of the provinces, municipalities, and autonomous regions wanted to expand their scope of experiments, and some of them even proposed that their experiments would cover the entire province.
While fully affirming this enthusiasm, we should also pay attention to avoiding over-enthusiastic and blind actions.If the experimental scope is too large at the beginning, then the meaning of making experiments in selected points no longer exists.
What we need to emphasize is that in making plans or experiments, or even in carrying out the future comprehensive development, two things must be respected: 1) The market law must be respected.
Under the conditions of developing the socialist market economy, we cannot purely rely on the support from the state and obstinately ask the state for projects and funds for developing the western region.Instead, we must organically combine the state's macroeconomic regulation and control with the market mechanism and fully exercise the role of the market in the allocation of resources.
2) The masses' wishes must be respected, and their initiative and creativeness must be brought into full play.
The practice for many years has shown that even if we do things with good intentions, we must also fully respect the masses' wishes, and only by arousing the masses' enthusiasm to work with one heart can we initiate an excellent situation for the western development.
It is gratifying that, in the western region now, the masses' enthusiasm for opening up cultivated land on slopes and returning land unfit for grain production to forestry and animal husbandry is running high.This valuable enthusiasm of the peasants must be seriously protected through such measures as reducing peasants' burdens, and others.
News that has recently spread here indicates that some localities in the western region have introduced or are studying the introduction of preferential policies, hoping to import funds from the eastern region and foreign countries through various methods.
Of course, this is extremely necessary, but we must note that making a good plan is equally very important.
If we have a scientific and meticulous plan and disseminate it extensively so that the entire world will clearly know about what and how we are going to do for the development of West China, then people will remove their worries as they have seen our determination, sincerity, methodicalness, and measures in the development.
Once their doubts and misgivings are cleared, they will vie with one another to make bold investment in the western region.
Therefore, making a good plan is conducive to creating a fully appealing investment environment.
We believe that with the wise leadership of the party's central committee and the valuable experiences gained in reform, opening up, and economic construction, the scientific planning work for the western development will certainly yield good results, and the magnificent ideal of the large-scale development of West China will certainly become a reality.CPP20000204000018 [Description of source: Beijing Xinhua Domestic Service in Chinese -- China's official news service (New China News Agency)] (endall) 020923 ycc/
Upon hearing a report on issues related to harnessing the Yellow River [Huang He] and other water conservancy projects, State Council Vice Premier Wen Jiabao emphasized that water issues are important factors restricting our nation's economic and social development.Water conservancy projects are very complex, systemic construction projects, requiring complete planning, comprehensive management, an emphasis on important points, guaranteed quality, and unceasing persistence in the work of flood prevention and drought resistance.
On February 2, Wen Jiabao came to the Ministry of Water Resources to hear a report by the head of the Ministry of Water Resources, Wang Shucheng, regarding water conservancy projects since last year, and a report by E Jingping, director of the Yellow River Water Conservancy Committee under the Ministry of Water Resources, regarding major issues and policies concerning harnessing the Yellow River.
Wen Jiabao fully affirmed that in 1999 our nation made remarkable achievements in water conservancy construction, and hoped that the cadres and staff on the battle lines of water conservancy would continue their efforts, complete this year's missions, and achieve even greater accomplishments.
He made the following requests with regard to several important issues in water conservancy: First, complete planning.
Scientific, complete water conservancy construction plans must be drawn up in accordance with the demands of the overall mission and overall goals of national economic and social development, and must be in line with overall planning for national economic and social development.
Drawing up plans must be treated as an important and pressing mission; and, as a task fundamental to the strengthening of water conservancy construction, it must be diligently carried out in a controlled manner.
The Ministry of Water Resources must draw up a comprehensive national plan for water conservancy construction development to be used in guiding the work of water conservancy nationwide.
Flood prevention and development plans must also be drawn up for the major river basins.
At the same time, plans for various types of special projects must be put in place.
Water conservancy projects within a river basin must all be carried out under the guidance of the overall plan and the plan for the river basin.
Second, comprehensive management.
Serious flooding, the scarcity of water resources, erosion, and worsening water pollution are currently the most important issues, and comprehensive management must be carried out.
Flood prevention is the primary mission, and it is also work that must be done frequently and diligently.
Flood prevention must be integrated with water conservation, ecological protection, and pollution prevention and control.
In addition, non-engineering measures such as meteorology, hydrology, monitoring, communications, information systems, and the like must be strengthened.
Water conservancy projects must establish management while placing emphasis on the right things, which means that while project quality must be taken seriously, maintenance and upkeep must also be strengthened.
Third, emphasize important points.
Proper handling requires making the relationships among what is possible, the current situation and the long-term.
According to the unified plan, major issues relating to the national economy and people's livelihood and urgent problems are resolved first, and moreover are integrated with the fulfillment of long-range planning goals.
According to the request made by General Secretary Jiang Zemin, we must insist on taking time to reach decisions, comprehensive consideration, scientific selections and comparisons, and meticulous designs for major water conservancy projects.
The establishment and design of projects must be fully debated and repeated comparisons must be made in order to make the project stand the test of time.
Fourth, ensure project quality.
This is critical to strengthening water conservancy construction management.
In the recent period of time, in accordance with requests from the central government and relevant national regulations, the Ministry of Water Resources has taken a series of measures to strengthen project quality management, and has achieved remarkable success.
However, many problems still remain in water conservancy projects.
The key to solving these problems lies in emphasizing the word strict, as in strict demands, strict management, and strict execution of the system of rules and regulations.Not one link can be left out in ensuring the quality of water conservancy projects.
Wen Jiabao stressed that flood prevention and drought resistance relate to the lives, property, and security of the people, and must be given high regard at all times.
First, we must get a handle on flood prevention construction and raise the flood-prevention capability of major rivers by emphasizing embankment construction now, and gradually bringing the embankments along the major rivers up to flood prevention standards, in accordance with the overall demands of flood prevention plans.
Second, we must implement a flood-prevention responsibility system, strengthen pre-flood inspections, and implement flood prevention measures.
This has been a cold winter, and we must put particular emphasis on the work of preventing flooding due to melting ice on northern rivers.
Third, we must raise the level of modern flood-prevention and drought resistance technology.
Establish modernized meteorological, hydrological, and communications facilities, strengthen analysis and research of rainfall and water conditions, and improve the accuracy of forecasting.
Wen Jiabao also came to the headquarters of the National Flood Prevention and Drought Resistance Office, where he paid a visit to the cadres and staff at the Prevention Office.
He called on the comrades at the National Prevention Office to be faithful in the discharge of their duties, diligent and responsible, and to serve selflessly to raise the scientific level and efficiency of the work.
Beijing, 3 Feb (ZTS) -- The State Council recently approved the establishment of a leadership group for the development of west China, to take overall charge of this development work.Zhu Rongji has been appointed head of the group, with Wen Jiabao as deputy head.The members include 17 ministerial-level officials.
The group members include: Zeng Peiyan, director of the State Development and Planning Commission; Sheng Huaren, director of the State Economic and Trade Commission; Education Minister Chen Zhili; Science and Technology Minister Zhu Lilan; Liu Jibin, director of the National Defense Science, Technology, and Industry Commission; Li Dezhu, director of the State Nationalities Affairs Commission; Finance Minister Xiang Huaicheng; Tian Fengshan, secretary of the party group of the Ministry of Land Resources; Railroads Minister Fu Zhihuan; Communications Minister Huang Zhendong; Information Industry Minister Wu Jichuan; Water Conservancy Minister Wang Shucheng; Agriculture Minister Chen Yaobang; Culture Minister Sun Jiazheng; People's Bank of China President Dai Xianglong; Liu Yunshan, deputy director of the Central Propaganda Department in charge of routine affairs; Tian Zongming, director of the State Broadcasting, Cinema, and Television Administration; State Forestry Bureau Director Wang Zhibao; and State Foreign Experts Bureau Director Wan Xueyuan.
The State Council Leadership Group for West China Development has an office subordinate to it; a specific organ has been set up in the State Development and Planning Commission, to undertake the day to day work of the leadership group.
Zeng Peiyan is director and Wang Chunzheng and Duan Yingbi are the deputy directors of this office.
The main duties of this office under the leadership group are: to look into and put forward proposals regarding the strategy, development plans, major issues, and relevant policies and rules and regulations for west China development, and promote sustained, rapid, and healthy economic development there; to look into and put forward proposals regarding rural economic development, key infrastructure construction, protection and building of the ecological environment, restructuring, resource exploitation, and the arrangement of major projects, and to organize and coordinate the enactment and implementation of plans for returning farmland to forest (grassland); to look into and put forward policy proposals regarding deepening reforms in west China, expanding opening up to the world, bringing in domestic foreign investment, technology, and talent, and to coordinate the all-round development of the economy and of science, education, and culture; and to undertake other tasks of the leadership group.
China formally proposed implementing the strategy of major development of west China at the national economic work conference last year.
Having been discussed until early this year, this major development strategy is gradually heating up.Clues to the thinking on western development are also being gradually revealed.
From 19 to 22 January the State Council Leadership Group for West China Development held a conference in Beijing on western development, at which Premier Zhu Rongji set out the scheme for this development, so that the work can get comprehensively started as soon as possible.
Since last August Premier Zhu Rongji has taken leading members of the State Council on many visits to the western provinces and autonomous regions to prepare the plans for western development; he has also put forward specific guidelines and policies for this work.
Beijing, 31 Jan (Xinhua) -- The All-China Federation of Trade Unions, the Communist Youth League [CYL] Central Committee, and the All-China Women's Federation held a joint forum in Beijing on the morning of 31 January to mark the fifth anniversary of the publication of President Jiang Zemin's speech entitled "Continue To Strive To Promote the Accomplishment of the Great Cause of the Reunification of the Motherland."
Those attending the forum said: President Jiang Zemin's speech gave a systematic, complete, and incisive explanation on Comrade Deng Xiaoping's idea of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" and put forward an eight-point proposal for further developing cross-strait relations and promoting the process of peaceful reunification of the motherland in the current stage.This fully reflected the determination and sincerity of the CPC and the Chinese Government to develop cross-strait relations and promote the reunification of the motherland and expressed all the Chinese people's aspiration for reunification.
As has been proven in practice over the past five years, President Jiang Zemin's important speech has a very important guiding significance in developing cross-strait relations and promoting the peaceful reunification of the motherland in the current stage.
Zhang Junjiu, vice chairman of the Executive Committee of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, said: Breakthroughs have been made in the exchanges and contacts between the trade unions and labor circles on both sides of the strait over the past five years, and exchanges between the industrial trade unions on both sides and between the trade unions of Taiwan Island and the provinces and municipalities of the mainland have been promoted.
During the exchanges and mutual visits, people of the same trades from the trade unions of both sides expressed their feelings of hope for reunification and opposition to separation.
To our regret, however, Lee Teng-hui [Li Denghui] openly trotted out the "two-state theory" when cross-strait relations were developing continuously, thus seriously undermining the foundation for the normal development of cross-strait relations and greatly damaging the interests of Taiwan compatriots.
Millions of staff and workers and trade unions at all levels throughout the country resolutely oppose this criminal act to split the motherland.
Zhang Junjiu said: Settling the Taiwan issue and achieving the complete reunification of the motherland is where the fundamental interests of the Chinese nation lie and is an irresistible historical trend.It is hoped that the Taiwan authorities will clearly understand the situation and, proceeding from the fundamental interests of the Chinese nation, will comply with the trend of this era and the aspiration of the Taiwan people to seek peace, stability, and development, and promote the continuous development of cross-strait relations with concrete deeds.
Gu Xiulian, vice president of the All-China Women's Federation, said: President Jiang Zemin's important speech has an important significance in practice.
After restoring sovereignty over Hong Kong, the Chinese Government once again successfully restored sovereignty over Macao in the just-passed 1999 in line with the principle of "one country, two systems" put forward by Comrade Deng Xiaoping, thus erecting another new milestone in the process of accomplishing the great cause of the reunification of the motherland.
The successful practice of the principle of "one country, two systems" in the Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Regions has won heartfelt support from the large numbers of Hong Kong and Macao compatriots.
The principle of "one country, two systems" has been understood and accepted by more and more people.
Today when we have entered the new century, settling the Taiwan issue and ultimately accomplishing the sacred mission of the reunification of the motherland have emerged prominently in front of all Chinese people, including Taiwan compatriots.
The All-China Women's Federation will continue to expand the exchanges and contacts with Taiwan women and play its due role in achieving peaceful reunification of the two sides of the strait at an early date and opposing the splittist forces in Taiwan.
Bayinqolu, executive secretary of the Secretariat of the CYL Central Committee and chairman of the All-China Youth Federation, said: Youths are future masters of the two sides of the strait.Promoting the development of cross-strait relations and achieving the complete reunification of the motherland constitute a sacred responsibility for the youths on both sides of the strait.
History has proven and will continue to prove that only with the reunification of the motherland can the nation be revitalized comprehensively, and only with national unity can a more brilliant tomorrow be created.
Bayinqolu said that in the new century, youths on both sides of the strait should cooperate and work hard together to attain the magnificent goal of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
At the moment when we say goodbye to the old year and usher in the new year, the All-China Federation of Trade Unions, the CYL Central Committee, and the All-China Women's Federation extended Spring Festival greetings to the large numbers of laborers, youths, and women in Taiwan.
Fuzhou, 31 Jan (ZXS) -- On the fifth anniversary of President Jiang Zemin's speech entitled "Continue to Strive to Promote the Great Cause of the Motherland's reunification," Chen Zhengtong, vice chairman of the Fujian provincial committee of the Taiwan Democratic Self-government Alliance [TDSA], said in an interview that the sons and daughters of China all over the world were greatly encouraged by President Jiang's eight-point proposal, and the members of the TDSA and other Taiwan compatriots living in the mainland felt extremely happy; all of them hoped that the Taiwan authorities would adapt to the tide of history and make a positive response as practical action for furthering the development of cross-strait ties and promoting the process of the motherland's reunification.
What they regret, however, is that cross-strait ties have developed in tortuous fashion over the past five years.
On the one hand, impelled by the basic guideline of "peaceful reunification, one country, two systems" and the various policies of the motherland's government, and with the support of the Taiwan compatriots living on the island, there has been great development in exchanges and cooperation and in the "three links"; Taiwan compatriots have already invested a certain amount in the mainland, and the process of peaceful reunification of the motherland has been effectively promoted; on the other hand, the good development of cross-strait ties has been seriously hampered due to vigorous interference by separatist elements in Taiwan and foreign anti-China forces.
Chen Zhengtong said that taking a general look at the situation on Taiwan in recent years, the separatist forces have caused a temporary clamor, and separatist activities have become more and more intense; they do not stop at shouting about "joining the United Nations" and "opening up a space for international existence," but have stepped up their activities to weaken the Taiwan compatriots' awareness of the Chinese nation.
In particular, on 9 July last year Li Teng-hui openly dished up the "two-state theory"; his actions have naturally been greeted with strong indignation and concerted condemnation by all patriotic compatriots at home and abroad; nor have they gained international response and support.
Following the reversion of Hong Kong and Taiwan to the motherland, the issue of settling the Taiwan problem is conspicuously facing the entire Chinese people.
Chen Zhengtong said that the Taiwan people have a glorious patriotic tradition; their aspirations to keep their way of life unchanged and to be masters in their own house are fully understood and respected by the CPC and the Chinese People's Government.
He believes that Taiwan's future lies in the motherland's reunification, and the perverse behavior of "Taiwan independence" elements can only cause tension in the strait and also threatens peace and security in the Asia-Pacific region; the Taiwan compatriots and peace-loving people the world over do not want to see this.
This is because there is only one China, and Taiwan is part of Chinese territory; this is undeniable fact, and no force can change in any way Taiwan's status as a part of Chinese territory.
As a Taiwan compatriot, he expressed resolute support for President Jiang Zemin's eight-point proposal on Taiwan.
He greatly appreciated President Jiang Zemin's remarks in the proposals on "strive to achieve peaceful reunification, Chinese should not fight Chinese."
He believes that the Taiwan problem is a matter left over from the Chinese civil war, but no Chinese wants another bloody war like that, and the Taiwan compatriots on the mainland and their relatives in Taiwan do not want it either.
The Taiwan people can only achieve happiness through reunification; and only through reunification can the Taiwan compatriots, together with the people of all nationalities in China, truly share in the international dignity and honor of the great motherland.
People on both sides of the strait entertain ardent hopes.
He expressed belief that so long as people act in accordance with the demands of President Jiang Zemin's eight-point proposal, wage ceaseless struggle against separatist elements inside and outside Taiwan, and actively promote the development of cross-strait ties, the motherland's complete reunification and the all-round rejuvenation of the Chinese nation can certainly be achieved.
The largest newspaper in Macao "Ao Men Jih Pao (Macao Daily)" released a commentary today, slashing the US House of Representatives' passage of "Taiwan Security Enhancement Act" bill.
The commentary said, the crucial point of the so-called "Taiwan Security Enhancement Act" was to deny what was stipulated in the "August 17" joint communique, which says that the United States should reduce and in the end halt arms sales to Taiwan.
This was to pave the way for the United States to provide advanced weapons to Taiwan, and include Taiwan in the TMD [Theater Missile Defense] The commentary said that the United States ignored the consequences and incorporated the security of other countrys under its own law.
This is naked hegimonism and power politics, and an obvious violation against the three Sino-US communiques.The attempts of anti-China politicians to obstruct China's great cause of reunification by wantonly interfering in China's internal affairs and backing up the splittist forces of "Taiwan independence" is clearly disclosed.
The commentary held that if the "Taiwan Security Enhancement Act" bill is enacted into law, not only will Sino-US relations be devastatingly damaged, but also the arrogance of the Taiwan splittist forces will be inflated.The tension in the Taiwan Strait will be intensified and the peace and stability of the Asian-Pacific region gravely threatened.
The commentary urged the US Government to keep their promises of not letting the bill be enacted into law, which would bring endless troubles.
Beijing, 3 Feb (ZXS) -- The latest edition of Zhonghua Yingcai, a bimonthly, has published the Chinese New Year messages of ten Chinese ministers, including Tang Jiaxuan, minister of foreign affairs; Zeng Peiyan, minister in charge of the State Development and Planning Commission; Gao Changli, minister of justice; and Sun Jiazheng, minister of culture.
Tang Jiaxuan notes in his message: China and the world need each other in their development.
To create a lasting peaceful and stable international and surrounding environment for China's reform, opening up and modernization drive, China will continue to carry out reform and open up to the outside world, continue to develop friendly and cooperative relations with all countries in the world on the basis of the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, earnestly strengthen unity and cooperation with developing countries, continue to consolidate friendship with neighbors, strive to maintain the framework of relatively stable relations with big powers, and improve and develop relations with developed countries in the West.
Tang Jiaxuan says China will take an active part in multilateral diplomatic activities of international organizations, firmly safeguard the objectives and principles in the UN Charter and universally-acknowledged norms governing international relations, and work hard with all peace-loving countries and peoples in the world in pushing for the construction of a just and rational international political and economic new order so as to play our part in building a peaceful, safe, prosperous, and stable new world.
Zeng Peiyan says: Looking ahead, China will, by the middle of the next century, have attained its third-step strategic objective and become an affluent, powerful, democratic, and civil socialist modern country and the Chinese nation will have achieved its great revitalization!
It will come up with grand projects and accomplish them, and it will act as a good advisor and assistant to the CPC Central Committee and the State Council.
Its current priorities include studying how to expand internal demand and speed up restructuring; studying key issues concerning medium- and long-range development on the basis of the plan of the 15th National Party Congress; studying the strategic issue of developing Western China in a big way; and studying the new situations China confronts while opening up to the outside and coming up with countermeasures.
Gao Changli says in his message: Judicial bodies have special responsibilities to bear while undertaking the great task of managing the country by law.
While doing our jobs, we must continue to heighten the nation's concept of the legal system and the law and accomplish all other relevant projects.We must do a good job in managing our prisons, educating inmates through labor, and ensuring the safety of our prisons so that our performance in reforming convicts and law-breakers will continue to be among the best in the world.We will continue to reform and develop our legal services for grass-roots units, including lawyer and notarization services.
Sun Jiazheng says: In 2000, China's cultural exchanges with foreign countries will continue to expand, and we will continue to upgrade our cultural exchange programs and improve their quality.
We will make earnest efforts to organize the many large cultural exchange programs, such as the "Great Get-Together of the Century," the Second Shanghai International Art Festival, and the Sixth China Art Festival.
Other ministers who have had their New Year messages published in the bimonthly are Zhang Weiqing, minister in charge of the State Family Planning Commission; Li Jinhua, auditor general of the Auditing Administration; Wang Shucheng, minister of water resources; Fu Zhihuan, minister of railways; Huang Zhendong, minister of communications; and Doje Cering, minister of civil affairs. ,
Beijing, 31 January (Zhongguo Xinwen She)-- Today China announced last year's results of the crackdown on smuggling and declared that large-scale smuggling has been more or less brought under control.
However, reality warns us that we must not relax our effort to crack down on smuggling in the slightest and must keep up the high pressure and strictly guard against a resurgence of smuggling.As top-echelon Chinese leaders put it, "there is no such thing as final victory in the battle against smuggling."
Last year, China cracked over 21,000 cases of smuggling and trafficking in smuggled goods, worth 12.7 billion yuan.
The public and the business community have truly felt that the government is cracking down on smuggling with unprecedented determination and forcefulness.
There are four main reasons why the antismuggling campaign has produced marked results since the national work conference on cracking down on smuggling in the second half of 1998.-- Top-echelon Chinese leaders have attached great importance to this campaign and have made plans for antismuggling operations from a political perspective.Zhu Rongji, Luo Gan, Wu Yi, and others have inspected antismuggling work on many occasions and the central authorities have directly instructed the handling of a batch of big and important cases, including the one in Zhanjiang.
-- The Army, the police force, political-judicial organs, and party and government organs have stopped their involvement in business and in the running of enterprises, depriving some smugglers of their protection and shelter; the effort against corruption has been intensified, echoing the antismuggling campaign.
The General Administration of Customs alone has investigated and handled 13 officials at the level of provincial department head or equivalent and 50 officials at the level of provincial section head or equivalent who have violated discipline and law.
-- Measures for comprehensive improvement have been implemented and powerful joint forces have developed in the antismuggling campaign.
Over 6,000 enterprises that conducted import and export business in violation of laws and regulations have been penalized and the networking of computers among relevant departments has plugged the loopholes that smugglers would otherwise have taken advantage of.
-- The law enforcement departments have continually conducted large-scale specialized antismuggling operations by focusing on key areas, key channels, and key commodities and kept up the high pressure on smuggling.
In their analysis of the trends and characteristics of smuggling, customs officials pointed out: At present, smuggling through the import and export channels by deceiving customs and "working around customs checks" remains serious; smuggling of cigarettes and finished oil products in the Beibu Wan waters remains rather serious, as smugglers are trying to move into China some of the gasoline that has been stockpiled on Vietnam's Yongshi [3057 1395] Island for a year; smuggling in finished oil products at the estuary of Zhu Jiang and in the waters in its vicinity has recently become more active again; smuggling in sensitive commodities in bulk along the southeast coast occurs from time to time and smuggling by the masses in a few isolated coastal areas still goes on; smugglers are still mostly legal persons and wholly and partially foreign-funded enterprises have gone to the top of the list as main smugglers; industrial chemicals, raw textile materials, finished oil products, edible oil, automobiles, motorcycles, cigarettes, and so on still feature largely among smuggled commodities.
As the smugglers itch for action, the antismuggling forces must not allow themselves "a breathing spell."
The key commodities that the crackdown will be directed to are still the above-mentioned "two types of materials," "two types of oil," "two types of motorized vehicles," cigarettes, electronic products, paper, mechanical and electrical plants, and so on.
It is necessary to strengthen the exchange of administrative assistance with the Hong Kong and Macao customs authorities; conduct specialized joint operations against smuggling at appropriate times; reinforce and improve the "national import and export customs declaration verification system" and accelerate the construction of the "port electronic law enforcement system;" implement the system whereby the departments in charge of specific industries are responsible for antismuggling results; continue to clean up and rectify the ports in the second category and strengthen control of small transport ships that go to and from Hong Kong and Macao.
The responsible persons at customs emphasized that it is necessary to administer customs strictly and resolutely purge each and every "borer" discovered with no leniency whatsoever.
An effort should be made to significantly strengthen the leadership groups at various levels in the customs sector, significantly raise the quality of the cadre contingent, markedly improve their conduct and discipline, and effectively check the phenomena of corruption in law enforcement within the next two years.
On the eve of the Spring Festival of 2000, Jiang Zemin, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee, president of China, and chairman of the Central Military Commission, wrote a spring festival greeting message, via the Spring Festival Soiree broadcast by the Central Television Station, to extend Spring Festival greetings to people of all nationalities throughout the country, Chinese living abroad, and overseas Chinese.
His message reads: On the occasion of the joyous Spring Festival, I wish the motherland to be prosperous, wealthy, and strong, and the people happy and healthy.
[FBIS Translated Text] Beijing, 31 Jan (Xinhua) -- The Fourth Plenary Session of the 15th CPC Central Committee and the central economic work conference, which was held soon after the plenary session, proposed that the state set about implementing the strategy for the massive development of the western region.
The development of the western region will meet tremendous obstacles if the problem of the resources of human talents is not solved.
Now a task of top priority is to quickly build a mighty contingent of qualified personnel of various types who can meet the strategic needs of the massive development of the western region as well as a contingent of high-quality cadres.
To build a mighty contingent of qualified personnel of various types, it is necessary, above all, for the central authorities to make overall planning, to coordinate efforts to solve problems, and to rationally adjust the distribution and structure of qualified personnel, including the regional structure of quality personnel.
In recent years, the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the State Ethnic Affairs Commission, and other central organs, as well as relevant government departments, have formulated a series of preferential policies and measures concerning the transfer of qualified personnel to the western region and the training of minority nationality cadres.
In coordination with relevant departments, the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee is studying and making strategic planning for qualified personnel for the massive development of the western region, strengthening the backbone of the party and government leadership, and assigning high-standard professional personnel to the region through various channels.
It is believed that with the further implementation of the strategy for the massive development of the western region, there will be certainly more and more qualified personnel swarming to that region, injecting fresh blood into the region's contingent of qualified personnel.
Party organizations at various levels in the western region should seize the day, seize the hour; with a sense of historic urgency and responsibility, they should speed up the selection, training, or education of qualified personnel.
Centering on the strategic objectives of the massive development of the western region, they should accelerate the reform of the personnel system relating to cadres and strive to create an employment environment in which talent will find its way to distinction, and human resources will be turned to the best account; they should arouse the initiative of qualified personnel to the maximum.
Now it is particularly necessary to further adopt new ideas, to widen the field of vision, to select local young qualified personnel with a potential for development and a prospect for training, and to strengthen leading bodies at various levels by assigning them to such bodies in order to fully tap the local potential in human resources.
In selecting and appointing cadres, we should completely do away with the old concept of giving priority only to seniority or demanding perfection in the selection of cadres and conscientiously enforce the "Interim Regulations on the Selection and Appointment of Leading Party and Government Cadres;" in the appointment of personnel, we should give greater scope to democracy, adhere to the principles of openness, justice, competition, and being selective, and ensure that those with ability and political integrity who have made remarkable achievements and who are acknowledged as outstanding cadres by the masses are selected for leading bodies at various levels; by having cadres work at higher and lower levels and through the exchange of cadres and the rotation of work posts, we should place them at appropriate posts; we should promote the rational allocation of human resources and make the best use of qualified personnel.
By carrying out those measures, we should vigorously improve the age, educational, and professional structures of leading bodies at various levels in order to increase their vitality.
While continuing to do a good job in selecting and sending cadres to Xinjiang and Tibet, we should step up our efforts to train young cadres of various types to meet the needs of the development of the western region.
We should effectively strengthen the building of the contingent of minority nationality cadres in order to adapt ourselves to the new situation.
We should make feasible plans for the training of qualified personnel and increase the investment in the development of science, technology, culture, and education; we should effectively implement a training responsibility system and adopt a measure for combining "sending one out and then asking him in" with "sending one to work at a lower level with his original position retained for him at a higher level;" we should select young cadres for systematic training or education at party and cadres schools at various levels or at colleges and universities in a planned way, by stages, and in groups.
Experts and scholars from institutions of higher learning and managerial personnel from economically developed areas should be invited to conduct scientific and technological training classes or give lectures to impart knowledge of advanced science and technology and of modern management to cadres.
We should select in a planned way a number of outstanding young cadres for tempering themselves at central state organs or in economically developed areas with their original positions retained for them, in order to help them widen their field of vision, adopt new ideas, and increase their abilities.
To meet the socialist market economy's requirements for the allocation of qualified personnel, party organizations at various levels in the western region should quickly develop a standard personnel market.
In the past, as a result of rapid economic development and preferential policy on personnel in the eastern region, some qualified personnel in the western region went there to work.
Now the western region should firmly seize the good opportunity for massive development, formulate a preferential policy, improve working conditions, and step up its efforts to bring in and use qualified personnel; not only should it fully develop and utilize its own human resources but it should be able to retain qualified personnel and use them creatively; moreover, it should make positive efforts to attract a large number of qualified personnel from developed areas and even from abroad to work for the massive development of the western region.
Seizing the opportunity for common development with the western region, the eastern region should formulate concrete measures to actively train and provide qualified personnel for the western region; it should encourage local outstanding personnel to seek new development in the western region and practically assist the latter in solving problems of want of human resources, instability of the cadre ranks, and an irrational cadre structure and distribution so as to promote the economic and social development of the western region together.
With the step-by-step implementation of the strategy for the massive development of the western region, it is necessary to effectively strengthen the education and management of cadres and to step up the improvement of the party's work style and the building of a clean and honest administration.
Party organizations at various levels must proceed from their concern and care for the cadres, make hay while the sun shines, strictly enforce various rules and regulations, strengthen the supervision and management of human, financial, and material resources, and prevent any problems of corruption among the cadres.
They should conscientiously implement democratic centralism; major matters concerning the selection of projects, public bidding, and spending of a large amount of money must be discussed and decided collectively, which must not determined by a few personnel, so as to prevent the phenomenon of striking deals between power and money.It is necessary to establish and improve a financial management system and use special funds for special purposes only; to establish and improve a democratic supervision system, make government and financial affairs known to the public, and increase the transparency of funds management; and to establish and improve an economic auditing system and urge cadres to accurately use their power and to be clean and honest through the auditing of leading cadres' economic responsibility during their terms of office and at their departure from their posts.
Efforts should be made to resolutely eliminate the corrupt phenomenon of spending public funds for wining, dining, and pleasure-seeking and to crack down on economic crimes of embezzling state development funds according to law, such as misappropriating public funds, embezzling public property, and striking deals between money and power.
The massive development of the western region will benefit future generations, and it has a bearing on the great cause of revitalizing the Chinese nation in an all-round way.It will take longer-term, arduous efforts to accomplish the undertaking of massive development of the western region.
We are firmly convinced that under the leadership of the CPC, with the support of the people across the country, and giving full play to the superiority of the socialist system, the cadres and people in the western region will certainly be able to use their wisdom and exert themselves to build a prosperous homeland with social progress, a stable life, national unity, and beautiful rivers and mountains.
Guangzhou Military Region is using test beds as the vanguard to lead its advance.It is using its focus on difficult points and attacking key problems to promote all-around progress.It is gradually making S&T training for troops standardized and scientific, and it has seen clear improvements in the quality of unit military training and in the level of combat power of its units.
How can S&T training for troops be made scientific?
Guangzhou Military Region guided its officers and soldiers in adopting a concept of scientific training based on the demands of actual combat as the impetus, talented people as the foundation, S&T as the guide, the masses as the main body, and standardized execution of training.
The Military Region proposed that S&T training for troops must have cientific instruction, scientific training, and scientific management.
These trainers employ new knowledge, new skills, new methods, and new measures as they execute 847 outstanding training subjects.
The Military Region also unified and standardized training content, methods, evaluation, etc., and put a great deal of effort into implementing evaluation of military training levels, strengthening quality control of S&T training for troops, and overcoming the practice of doing what one pleases in training.
The Military Region efforts were effective in improving the quality of S&T training for troops.In S&T training for troops, the Guangzhou Military Region emphasizes transformation of the results of the training.
Through the spread of training achievements, the achievements are transformed into overall unit combat power.Since last year the Military Region has convened three onsite demonstrations of S&T training to research and discuss the S&T training new training methods and new combat methods.
Over 600 innovations were manifested on the training ground.Among these, innovations in military region command automation and in artillery digitization are in the lead in the entire Army.Tactical training made new breakthroughs.Sea crossing and amphibious landing operations, electronic warfare, countering air raids, new hree attacks and three defenses and other key, difficult subjects underwent testing in exercises similar to real war.
On a foundation of extensive development of S&T training for troops, the Military Region in an organized way guided units to be active in probing for, researching, and discussing the demands of local war under high-tech conditions, the effect of the development of the socialist market economy on the driving force of training of officers and soldiers, what difficulties remained in training itself, and other issues, and to find corresponding countermeasures and methods.
Guangzhou Military Region also concentrated on the missions of a theater of operations, and created a series of military theories, combat methods, and training methods characteristic of a theater of operations, and put these to the test in military exercises.
Shanghai, 1 Feb (ZXS) -- At the first Shanghai International Industrial Fair held at the end of last year, results of development in the fields of high technology, electronic information, electrical equipment, biomedicine, and new materials vividly revealed the new face of Shanghai's modern industrial sector.
The deeper significance of this exposition lay in demonstrating that if China treats seriously the policy direction favoring technological innovation, proactive adjustment structures, and development of high-tech industry, this will not only revitalize the old industrial base, but also will promote the overall improvement and upgrading of the nation's economic structures and enhance China's economic strength.
The revolution in science and technology that took place in the world economy at the end of the twentieth century, comprised of information technology, biomedicine, new materials, new energy, and aerospace technology, brought with it an inherent tendency toward accelerated development.
The high-tech industrial groups that grew out of this have gradually become the most important sources of economic growth for every nation.
Against this background, if China is to be incorporated into the world economy, it is essential that we accelerate the development of high-tech industry, enhance the overall national strength, and improve this industry's standing in terms of the international division of labor.
In the course of more than 20 years of development under the reform and opening up policies, China's economy has undergone a historic change.
In the 20th century, following the great agricultural development that occurred between the late 1970s and early 1980s, and the rapid development during the mid-1980s of light industries such as textiles and home appliances, as well as the tertiary industries, and with all the accelerated developments in infrastructure and basic industries that were seen during the 1990s, countless problems have gradually seen their solution in China.
In particular, China has formulated a great many policies and measures to promote the development of high-tech industry, such that today this industry has considerable scope and a well-established foundation.
There are more than 50,000 high-tech enterprises in China, and 53 national high-tech development zones have been established.
In manufacturing, a host of industries subject to intellectual property rights and enjoying competitive advantage are currently taking shape.Their domestic market share is gradually expanding, and they are also opening up space on the international market.
However, we still have a situation where drastic surplus of low added-value, low-tech products coincides with insufficient effective demand for high-tech products, and the resulting structural conflicts are very conspicuous.
Only by accelerating the development of high technology and its related industries will we activate the qualitative leap in industrial structures and technological standards and capacities that will transform China in the 21st century from a great industrialized nation into an industrial power.
Our reporter has learned from relevant sources within the China State Planning Commission that development of China's high-tech industry will proceed in conformity with promoting economic and social development and stimulating structural adjustments and upgrading.Currently, three main responsibilities have been identified: -- To accelerate the coordinated development of the information industry.
In the 20th century, beginning from the early 1990's, China's information industry has consistently shown an annual growth rate of more than 30 percent, and this makes it one of the most rapidly developing sectors of the national economy.
Within the next ten years, computers, electronic communications, software, and display technologies will all see significant breakthroughs, and the trend toward digitization, network-based information, and intelligent capability is already irreversible.
It is for this reason that the market outlook for the information industry in China is so optimistic.It is estimated that by the year 2010 this industry's market capacity will reach 6 trillion RMB.
Clearly, development of the information industry will become one of the important forces driving economic development in the new century.
-- To speed up the industrialization of high technology, and promote the maturation of newly-emerging industries.
After several decades of construction, China now certainly enjoys many of the conditions that favor accelerated development of high-tech industry, such as an adequate pool of human resources, and the requisite industrial base, technology reserves, market conditions, and funds penetration.
For this reason we are selecting those key areas or key links that have favorable prospects, where the degree of industrial linkage will be significant, and which can drive the entire mechanism for critical breakthroughs, and through these we will vigorously strive to realize a leap in high-tech development.
-- To strengthen the assimilation of traditional industry to high technology, and promote the improvement and upgrading of traditional industry.
Traditional industry still has very weak technological foundations, but while it is hard pressed to adapt itself to the intensity of international competition, it does still control the development of the future.
Therefore, promoting the improvement and upgrading of traditional industry is one of the most important responsibilities connected with developing high-tech industry in China.
At the same time, traditional industry also offers high-tech industries a very broad market in which to expand.
This type of interdependence and mutual stimulus would be difficult to ignore.
Currently, relevant organs are in process of studying and formulating development planning for high-tech industry in accordance with the overall strategy for national economic and social development.Experts from relevant local governments and departments, from the science and technology sector, and from the field of economics are invited to study the important issues in connection with the early planning phase together; and to investigate and discuss the thinking behind this planning as it is being formulated.
At the same time, the Chinese government will: establish a legal environment favorable to the development of high-tech industry, through a series of policies and regulations; we will create a series of technological initiatives centered around particular enterprises; we will foster a system of investment and financing that will be in keeping with the developmental characteristics of the high-tech industrial sector itself; and we will strengthen the implementation of strategies for development of high-tech industry that will "place people at the center," and so forth.
Hong Kong, 5 February (XNA) -- People living in the Chung Uk Village of Lam Tsuen in Tai Po in the New Territories today had an unexpected first day of the Lunar New Year, the year of the dragon.
Just like before, hundreds of villagers gathered at the square in front of the ancestral hall of the Chung family to have mass greetings.
When everyone was concentrating on watching the performance of a dragon and lion dance, Tung Chee-hwa, chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, and his wife Tung Chiu Hung-ping came to wish them a Happy New Year.
The unexpected visit of the Chief Executive and his wife gave Chung Uk Village's villagers a pleasant surprise.
Tung Chee-hwa and his wife conveyed New Year greetings to villagers one by one, and gave out chocolate coins as well as lively mini paper dragons, wishing them a smooth-going dragon year and the vigor of a dragon and a tiger.
Accompanied by the villagers' representative, Tung Chee-hwa and his wife looked over the ancestral hall of the Chung family.
Then, Tung Chee-hwa and his wife visited one indigenous family of the village.
The master of the house is 69-year-old Chung Chi-chien, a retired public servant.He has three sons, one daughter, and three grandsons.
In the first day of every Lunar New Year, they all came back to the village to have a gathering and wish their parents and elder members of the family a Happy New Year.
Tung Chee-hwa and his wife conveyed New Year's greeting to the whole family.The family greeted the Chief Executive and his wife, and treated them to home-made festival food.
Lam Tsuen has enjoyed a long history.The ancestors of the villagers relocated here in the late years of Song Dynasty, which was 700 years ago.
Chung Uk Village is a small village in Lam Tsuen, with about 180 residents.
Shelley Lau, director of Home Affairs, and other people accompanied Tung Chee-hwa and his wife to visit the Chung-Uk Village.
Beijing, 6 Feb (Xinhua) -- The China Development Bank has adopted effective measures to actively ward off and resolve financial risks.
Reportedly, this bank has instituted the responsibility system for development, acceptance, appraisal, auditing, and decision of projects to set up a "fire wall" between the appraisal of loans and the auditing and decision of loans, thus defining the risk-bearing responsibilities of the departments in charge of general affairs, evaluation, credit, auditing, appraisal, and asset maintenance.At the same time, the bank has intensified the evaluation of the project market risks and financial risks, established the customer credit rating system, and seriously executed the payment settlement system of the People's Bank of China to ensure the giro of funds and ward off settlement risks.
In terms of internal auditing work, this bank has conducted the real-time supervisory control and the non-spot auditing and supervisory control over all of its fund movement, credit items, and internal control in line with the demand of controlling "all fields and all processes."
As a major effort to prevent financial risks, the bank has also strengthened the separation of bad assets.Last year alone, the bank separated 100 billion yuan of bad assets and signed 21 framework agreements on conversion of loans into equity, with the sum of converted loans reaching 21.7 billion yuan in renminbi.
Moscow, 6 Feb (Xinhua) -- The Russian Federation Security Council, chaired by acting Prime Minister Putin, recently approved the draft of a new military doctrine.
The new doctrine stresses that when Russia itself and its allies suffer aggression, and a war aimed at destroying Russia cannot be stopped by conventional weapons, Russia has the right to use nuclear weapons.
This shows that Russia will be the first to launch a nuclear attack, when it believes it necessary.
The new military doctrine also lays down that the armed forces can be used to strike at illegal armed forces and crime within Russia and to preserve the state constitution and social stability.
According to the new military doctrine, Russia can counterattack with nuclear weapons even if the enemy attacks Russia and its allies with non-nuclear weapons, but they will never use nuclear weapons against other countries if Russia and its allies are not subject to external aggression.
The Russian military emphasizes that the new military doctrine gives Russia the right to take the initiative in launching a nuclear strike against the enemy.
The doctrine formulated in 1993 had laid down that Russia could only use nuclear weapons in response to a nuclear attack.
At the same time the new Russian military doctrine has conferred on the Russian armed forces the functions of defending the state constitution, and striking at the illegal activities of extremist organizations, organized crime, and terrorism; the original military doctrine laid down that such tasks should be undertaken by Interior Ministry troops.
The background to Russia's formulation of its new military doctrine is the dramatic changes in the internal and external situation in recent years and the ever-growing external threat that Russia faces.
In March 1999, NATO set in motion its chariot of eastward expansion by formally accepting Poland, Hungary, and the Czech Republic as new members.
The three Baltic states and certain Mideast countries are also eager to try to join NATO at an early date.
NATO's eastward expansion posed a direct threat to Russian security interests.
After that, ignoring the opposition of many countries, including Russia, and without UN authorization, US-led NATO wantonly waged a 78-day large-scale air war against the Yugoslav Federation.
Acting Russian Prime Minister Putin specifically pointed out at the recent Russian Federation Security Council meeting that the new military doctrine is "a reply to NATO."
This means that Russia now regards US-led NATO as its "no. 1 imaginary enemy."
Yeshin, director of the Military Construction Bureau of the council, said that due to its economic difficulties and shortage of military funds, Russia cannot fight a conventional war with NATO for the foreseeable future.
In order to be respected by others, it is essential to maintain nuclear potential and regard nuclear weapons as "political instruments for curbing the enemy."
Internally, the separatist activities of the illegal Chechen militia threaten regional security and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Russian Federation.
All kinds of gang crimes have become a major factor affecting social stability and economic growth.
Military experts point out that unless the Russian authorities send in their armed forces, it is hardly imaginable that victory could be won in the Chechen war.
Hence, the military doctrine by which the Russian armed forces were only used to deal with external aggression no longer suits today's reality.
Military analysts here believe that the new Russian military doctrine is an expansion and extension in the military sphere of the "Russian security concept" which was adopted in January, and is also a "war warning."
NATO will think thrice about taking major military action again that threatens Russia and its allies.
Nuclear arms will play a still greater deterrent role as the "trump cards" preserving Russia's great power status and vital interests.
Beijing, 6 Feb (Xinhua) -- People's Republic of China [PRC] Management Regulations for the Renminbi Chapter I General Rules Article 1 In order to strengthen management over the renminbi, safeguard the reputation of the renminbi, stabilize the financial order, these regulations have been formulated based on the "PRC People's Bank of China Law."
Article 2 The renminbi stated in these regulations refers to the currency issued in accordance with law by the People's Bank of China, including banknotes and coins.
It is necessary to observe these regulations when engaging in such activities as design, printing, issuance, circulation, and recovery of renminbi.
Article 3 The legal currency of the PRC is the renminbi.
All units and individuals should not reject any payments of public or personal debts with the renminbi within the boundary of the PRC.
Article 4 The unit of the renminbi is the Yuan, and the fractional currencies of the renminbi are the jiao and the fen.
One yuan equals 10 jiao, and one jiao equals 10 fen.
The renminbi is paid by denomination.
Article 5 The People's Bank of China is the state organ in charge of the management of the renminbi, and responsible for the organization and implementation of these regulations.
Article 6 All units and individuals should take good care of the renminbi, and be prohibited from damaging the renminbi or obstructing the circulation of the renminbi.
Chapter II Design and Printing Article 7 The new version of the renminbi was organized and designed by the People's Bank of China, and submitted to the State Council for approval.
Article 8 The renminbi is printed by the exclusive enterprise designated by the People's Bank of China.
Article 9 The enterprise designated to print the renminbi should print the renminbi in accordance with the renminbi quality standard and the printing plan formulated by the People's Bank of China.
Article 10 The enterprise designated to print the renminbi should turn all the up-to-standard renminbi products over to the renminbi issuance treasury of the People's Bank of China, and destroy in accordance with the regulations of the People's Bank of China all of the renminbi products that are not up to standard.
Article 11 The original version and the grand master pattern used in printing the renminbi should be sealed up for safekeeping by the People's Bank of China after use.
Article 12 Such important items as the particular material, technology, workmanship, and special equipment for printing the renminbi are state secrets.
The enterprise for printing the renminbi and relevant personnel should guard state secrets.All units and individuals must not provide the information to outsiders without approvals from the People's Bank of China.
Article 13 Without approvals from the People's Bank of China, units and individuals must not develop, imitate, import, sell, purchase, or use the specific anti-counterfeit material, anti-counterfeit technology, anti-counterfeit workmanship, and special equipment used in printing the renminbi.
Article 14 The renminbi prototype is the standard sample for inspecting the printing quality of the renminbi and discerning the false from the genuine renminbi, and is printed in accordance with the regulations of the People's Bank of China by the enterprise that prints the renminbi.
The word "prototype" should be printed on the renminbi prototype.
Chapter III Issuance and Recovery Article 15 The renminbi is issued uniformly by the People's Bank of China.
Article 16 When the People's Bank of China issues a new version of the renminbi, it is necessary to report to the State Council for approval.
The People's Bank of China should make a public announcement on the issuing time, denomination, design, pattern, specifications, dominant hue, and major features of the new version of the renminbi.
The People's Bank of China must not pay financial institutions with the new version of the renminbi before a public announcement on the issuance of the new version of the renminbi is made.
Article 17 Reasons such as anti-counterfeit or others which entail a change to the printing material, technology or workmanship, the People's Bank of China should be the basis for the decision.
The People's Bank of China should make a public announcement on the issuing time, denomination, and major features of the corrected renminbi.
The People's Bank of China must not pay financial institutions with the corrected renminbi before a public announcement on the issuance of the corrected renminbi is made.
Article 18 The People's Bank of China may issue commemorative currencies according to need.
Commemorative currencies are the renminbi of limited issuance and with specific themes, including ordinary commemorative currencies and precious-metal commemorative currencies.
Article 19 The theme, denomination, design, material quality, pattern, specifications, and volume and time of issuance of commemorative currencies should be decided by the People's Bank of China.However, for the commemorative currencies that have significant political and historical themes, it is necessary to report to the State Council for approval.
The People's Bank of China should make a public announcement on the theme, denomination, design, material quality, pattern, specifications, volume, and time of issuance of commemorative currencies.
The People's Bank of China must not pay financial institutions with commemorative currencies before a public announcement on the issuance of the commemorative currencies is made.
Article 20 The People's Bank of China sets up the renminbi issuance treasury and branch treasuries in its branch institutions to be in charge of the safekeeping of the renminbi issuance funds.
The positions of directors of the renminbi issuance treasuries at various levels are assumed by the governors of the branches of the People's Bank of China at the same levels.
The renminbi issuance funds are the renminbi that have not entered into circulation and kept by the renminbi issuance treasury of the People's Bank of China.
The allocation of the renminbi issuance funds should be processed in accordance with the regulations of the People's Bank of China.
Units and individuals are not allowed to violate regulations to draw on the renminbi issuance funds, nor are they allowed to disturb or obstruct allocation of the renminbi issuance funds.
Article 21 Circulation suspension of any specific version of the renminbi should be reported to the State Council for approval, and announced to the public by the People's Bank of China.
The financial institutions that handle the business of renminbi deposit and withdrawal should buy and exchange the renminbi that are no longer in circulation, and hand the renminbi over to the local branches of the People's Bank of China for reserve.
The People's Bank of China must not pay financial institutions renminbi that are no longer in circulation, and financial institutions must not use renminbi that are no longer in circulation for external payments.
Article 22 The financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should exchange, according to the regulations of the People's Bank of China, with the public renminbi that are flawed or stained without asking for compensation, pick out and hand over renminbi that are flawed or stained to the local branches of the People's bank of China for reserve.
The People's Bank of China must not pay financial institutions renminbi that are flawed or stained, and financial institutions must not use flawed or stained renminbi for external payments.
Article 23 Renminbi that are no longer in circulation, and are flawed or stained, should be recovered and destroyed by the People's Bank of China.
Specific procedures should be formulated by the People's Bank of China.
Chapter IV Circulation and Protection Article 24 The financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should handle the business of regulating various renminbi bills based on the principle of reasonable requirements.
Article 25 Illegal purchases and sales of renminbi that are in circulation are prohibited.
Purchases and sales of commemorative currencies should follow the relevant regulations of the People's Bank of China.
Article 26 An approval from the People's Bank of China is required for binding and operation of renminbi that are in circulation.
Article 27 The following behavior which damages the renminbi shall be banned: First, deliberately damaging the renminbi; second, making, copying, and purchasing and selling of the renminbi design; third, using the renminbi design on propaganda material, publications, or other commodities without approvals from the People's Bank of China; fourth, other behavior that damages the renminbi as regulated by the people's Bank of China.
The renminbi design stated in the previous clauses includes enlarged and miniaturized renminbi designs and the renminbi designs of the original size.
Article 28 The renminbi prototype is banned from circulation.
The renminbi prototype management procedures are regulated by the People's Bank of China.
Article 30 It is necessary to implement the quota management system for bringing the renminbi in and out of the country when Chinese citizens or foreigners enter and exit the country.The specific quota is regulated by the People's Bank of China.
Article 31 Forgery and alteration of the renminbi are prohibited.
Sales and purchases of forged or altered renminbi are prohibited.
Smuggling, transportation, possession, and use of forged or altered renminbi are prohibited.
Article 32 Units or individuals that possess forged or altered renminbi should turn them over promptly to the People's Bank of China, public security organs, or the financial institutions that handle the renminbi deposit and withdrawal business.It is necessary to report to the public security organs immediately upon discovering others possessing forged or altered renminbi.
Article 33 The People's Bank of China and public security organs should confiscate the discovered forged or altered renminbi, stamp on the renminbi the words "counterfeit currency," and register to keep a record.The possessors who have objections to the truth or falsehood of the confiscated renminbi can apply to the People's Bank of China for verification.
The public security organ should hand over all the confiscated forged or altered renminbi to the local branches of the People's Bank of China.
Article 34 Upon discovering forged or altered renminbi, a financial institution that handles the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should immediately report to the public security organs if the discovery involves a relatively large volume, forged renminbi of the new version, or clues to other fabrication or sales of forged or altered renminbi.For discoveries that involve a relatively small volume of forged or altered renminbi, more than two employees from the financial institution should confiscate the renminbi on the spot, stamp on the renminbi the words of "counterfeit currency," and register to keep a record.Moreover, the financial institution should present to the possessors a confiscation voucher which is printed uniformly by the People's Bank of China, and inform the possessors that they may apply for verification to the People's Bank of China or the business affairs institutions of the commercial banks exclusively owned by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China.
The People's Bank of China formulates the specific procedures on the confiscation and verification of forged or altered renminbi.
The financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should hand over all the confiscated forged or altered renminbi to the local branches of the People's Bank of China.
Article 35 The People's Bank of China and the business affairs institutions of the commercial banks owned exclusively by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China should provide the service of verifying the truth and falsehood of the renminbi without asking for compensation.
If verified to be genuine currencies, the renminbi stamped with the words of "counterfeit currency" should be exchanged on denomination by the People's Bank of China or the business affairs institutions of the commercial banks owned exclusively by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China.If verified to be forged money, the branded counterfeit renminbi should be confiscated by the People's Bank of China or the business affairs institutions of the commercial banks owned exclusively by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China.
The business affairs institutions of the commercial banks owned exclusively by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China should hand over all the confiscated forged or altered renminbi to the local branches of the People's Bank of China.
Article 36 The financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should adopt effective measures to guard against the use of forged or altered renminbi for external payments.
The financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal should provide on the business sites the service of verifying the truth and falsehood of the renminbi without asking for compensation.
Article 37 The forged or altered renminbi should be uniformly destroyed by the People's Bank of China.
Article 38 The anti-counterfeit instrument for verifying the renminbi should be produced by the standard regulated by the state.
The national standard of the anti-counterfeit instrument for verifying the renminbi is formulated by the People's Bank of China and relevant departments, which provide assistance to organizations for implementation of the standard.
Article 39 The renminbi with one of the following conditions should not be put in circulation: First, flawed or stained renminbi which cannot be exchanged; second, the renminbi that are no longer in circulation.
Chapter V Penalty Regulations Article 40 For the enterprise responsible for printing the renminbi and relevant personnel that have one of the following conditions, the People's Bank of China will issue a warning, confiscate their profits obtained illegally, and impose on them a fine equivalent to between one and three times the value of the obtained illegal profits .Those that do not have illicit gains will be fined between 10,000 and 100,000 yuan.In accordance with law, disciplinary measures should be taken against the people directly in charge and the personnel indirectly in charge: First, those that print the renminbi without following the renminbi quality standard and the printing plan formulated by the People's Bank of China; second, those that fail to turn all the up-to-standard renminbi products over to the renminbi issuance treasury of the People's Bank of China; third, those that do not completely destroy the renminbi products that are not up to standard in accordance with the regulations of the People's Bank of China; fourth, those that arbitrarily provide to outsiders, without approvals from the People's Bank of China, information on such state secrets as the particular material, technology, workmanship, or special facilities used in printing the renminbi.
Article 41 Those that violate article 13 of these regulations should be given a warning by industrial and commercial administration organs and other organs of administrative law enforcement.Their illicit gains and illegal properties should be confiscated, and a fine equivalent to between one and three times the illicit gains should be imposed.Those that do not obtain profits illegally will be fined between 20,000 and 200,000 yuan.
Article 42 If violating article 21, clauses 2 or 3, and article 22 of these regulations, the financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal will be given a warning by the People's Bank of China, and be fined between 1,000 and 5,000 yuan.In accordance with law, disciplinary measures should be taken against the people directly in charge and the personnel indirectly in charge.
Article 43 Those who deliberately destroy the renminbi should be given a warning by the public security organs, and imposed with a fine of less than 10,000 yuan.
Article 44 Those that violate articles 25, 26, and article 27, clause 1, items 2 and 4 should be given a warning by the industrial and commercial administration organs and other relevant administrative law enforcement organs.Their illicit gains and illegal properties should be confiscated, and a fine equivalent to between one and three times the illicit gains should be imposed.Those that do not obtain profits illegally should be fined between 1,000 and 50,000 yuan.
The industrial and commercial administration organs and other relevant administrative law enforcement organs should destroy the renminbi design used illegally.
Article 45 If violating articles 34, 35, and 36 of these regulations, the financial institutions that handle the business of the renminbi deposit and withdrawal and the business affairs institutions of the commercial banks owned exclusively by the state and authorized by the People's Bank of China should be given a warning by the People's Bank of China, and fined between 1,000 and 50,000 yuan.
Article 46 If the People's Bank of China, public security organs, industrial and commercial administration organs, and employees of these organizations violate stipulations of these regulations, the people directly in charge and other personnel indirectly in charge will be given administrative penalties in accordance with law.
Article 47 Those who violate article 20, clause 3, and article 27, clause 1, item 3, and articles 29 ad 31 should be punished according to relevant stipulations of the "PRC people's Bank of China Law."Among these, those who violate article 31 of these regulations and constitute a crime should be prosecuted for their criminal liabilities in accordance with law.
Chapter VI Supplementary Articles Article 48 These regulations will go into effect starting from 1 May 2000.
Beijing, 2 Feb (ZXS) -- As of this morning, the number of people who have visited the six major temple fairs in Beijing has reached 300,000.
Jia Qinglin, secretary of the Beijing Municipal CPC Committee, and Liu Qi, mayor of Beijing Municipality, respectively went to fairs at the Ditan Temple and the Longtan Temple, where they extended New Year greetings to the people.
At three o'clock in the afternoon, Jia Qinglin and his wife Lin Youfang brought their grand daughter to the Ditan Temple fair.They, together with a large crowd of people, walked into the west gate of the park.
Jia Qinglin happily shook hands with citizens and said hello to them.He extended his New Year greetings to them and wished them happiness and good luck in the year of dragon.
Seeing that children were performing Peking opera with an excellent style as well as with a loud and clear voice, Jia Qinglin asked them how old they were.
The young performers answered: Nine years old.
Jia Qinglin told his grand daughter: You are eight years old now.You should learn from these elder brothers and sisters.
Yesterday, Mayor Liu Qi, together with about 100,000 tourists, visited the 17th Spring Festival Temple Fair at Longtan, where they sent off the year of the rabbit and ushered in the year of the dragon.
Liu Qi and others viewed the folk art performances presented by people from various localities.
Liu Qi and others also went into the Jinghua Restaurant where they enjoyed various Beijing-style snacks with Beijing residents.
In his speech on the morning of 6 February at the 36th International Security Policy Conference in Munich, a city in southern Germany, Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Wang Guangya stressed that the Taiwan issue is an internal issue of China and therefore China by no means will allow any foreign forces to intervene in it.
Wang Guangya pointed out: The Chinese Government will insist on settling the Taiwan issue according to the basic principle of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems," and is resolutely opposed to any plots and words and deeds aimed at creating "Taiwan independence," "two China's," "one China, one Taiwan," or splitting the country.
He stressed: "Either directly or indirectly including the Taiwan Strait in the security cooperation realm of any countries or a military alliance constitutes a violation of and interference in China's sovereignty."
China is opposed to arms sales to Taiwan by any countries because "this not only violates the norms of basic international law, but also directly threatens China's security and regional peace and stability."
Wang Guangya reiterated that the Chinese Government will "resolutely defend China's sovereignty, territorial integrity, national dignity, and national security."
Wang Gguangya also warned of US development of a National Missile Defense [NMD] system, pointing out that this move by the US Government will "seriously disrupt the global strategic balance and stability and damage the international security environment," and that "it is even possible for this to trigger a new round of an arms race."
On the United Nations' role, Wang Guangya emphatically expounded the Chinese Government's stand that it hopes the United Nations will play a more active role in peacefully settling international disputes.
He pointed out: The various norms governing international relations, including the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, established after WWII meet the requirements of historical development and progress of times.
These norms, "particularly the principle of sovereignty equality and non-interference in other countries' internal affairs, are absolutely not outdated".
He also severely denounced some countries for putting regional organizations above the UN Security Council or even bypassing the UN Security Council to carry out military intervention in a sovereign country, pointing out that such practice has "severely damaged the existing international collective security mechanism, and the consequences are extremely dangerous."
The two-day international security policy conference closed on 6 February.
About 200 high-level government delegates and experts from 30 countries attended the conference.
China, India, and Japan sent high-level government delegates for the first time to attend the conference.
Hong Kong, 6 Feb (Xinhua) -- To celebrate the arrival of the year of the dragon according to the lunar calendar, Hong Kong held a fireworks show in Victoria Harbor this evening.
The 23-minute nine-part fireworks show began at 0800 PM [1200 GMT].
Countless pictures in a riot of color competing with each other for beauty of looks that were created by more than 20,000 fireworks fired from four 50-meter-long barges made several hundred thousand people shout and jump for joy.
Tung Chee-hwa, chief executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, presided over the "ceremony to light the auspicious dragon lantern" and watched the fireworks show with Hong Kong people.
In this year's New Year fireworks show featuring a large number of series of varieties, fireworks of more than 200 varieties in 16 series were used.
Different parts of the show had different colors and arrangements to create different views.
In one part of the show, fireworks created a picture with the figures "2000" five times in succession.This was the first time that such fireworks were fired in Hong Kong.
Another part of the show where fireworks created a picture of coconut trees was particularly attractive.When the fireworks were fired, coconut trees appeared in the sky; and after a round of crackling, the coconut trees disappeared.But after two seconds, countless small coconut trees reappeared in the sky to symbolize continuous reproduction bred in an endless succession.
It was learned from the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection that since the convocation of the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, various provinces, autonomous regions, municipalities directly under the jurisdiction of the central authorities and various departments and ministries of the party Central Committee and the state have attached great importance to and seriously disseminated, studied, and implemented the spirit of Comrade Jiang Zemin's important speech and the plenary session.In the light of actual conditions, various localities and units have made arrangements for promoting the building of a clean and honest government and fighting against corruption in their respective places and departments.
Soon after the conclusion of the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection, party committees of various provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities immediately held standing committee meetings and various departments of the party Central Committee and ministries of the state also immediately held meetings of their respective party leading groups to seriously transmit the spirit of the plenary meeting and study specific measures to implement the spirit.Various units have also held meetings to make arrangements for improving party's style of work, building a clean and honest government and fighting against corruption this year.
As of the end of January, 26 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities had already held plenary meetings of discipline inspection commissions, meetings on combating corruption, or meetings on how to improve the party's style of work and promote the building of a clean and honest government in their respective places.Those meetings have disseminated and studied measures to implement the spirit of Comrade Jiang Zemin's important speech and the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and made arrangements for this year's tasks of improving the party's style of work, building a clean and honest government and fighting against corruption.
The remaining provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities will also soon hold meetings to disseminate and implement the spirit of the plenary meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.
Various places and units have laid stress on seriously studying and implementing Comrade Jiang Zemin's important speech at the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection.
Leaders of respective places and units are convinced that General Secretary Jiang Zemin's important speech has penetratingly analyzed the current situation and existing problems in party building from the strategic level of initiating a great project to improve the party, has incisively explained the great significance and utmost importance of tightening party discipline under the new situation, has put forward demands for tightening party discipline, and has clearly pointed out directions for improving the party's style of work, promoting the building of a clean and honest government and launching struggles against corruption.
Various localities and units have paid attention to implementing the spirit of the Fourth Plenary Meeting of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection in the light of actual conditions in their respective places and units.
In Sichuan Province, the secretary of the provincial party committee and the governor have assumed full responsibility for improving the style of the party, building a clean and honest government, and fighting against corruption.They have divided this year's anti-corruption work into 10 major tasks and 36 specific tasks.
In order to implement stipulations on forbidding leaders to help their spouses and dependents gain illegal benefits by taking advantage of their power and positions, the province has decided to grasp the following three measures: 1) clearly investigating the situation and taking the initiative to correct wrongdoings; 2) having party committees and discipline inspection commissions at the higher level strengthen supervision and inspection and lay stress on solving those problems strongly opposed by the masses; and 3) having party committees of various cities and prefectures and party leading groups (or party committees) of provincial level departments effectively grasp the implementation of regulations by members of various leading groups and cadres at prefecture (or department) level.
Leaders in Guangdong Province have attached great importance to seriously investigating and handling cases of violating law and discipline in the financial field in the light of actual conditions.Efforts are being made to investigating and entering names of those cadres who have appropriated public funds for use by relatives, friends and individual business operators without returning money for a long time.Those who refuse to correct their wrongdoings and cause loss to the state will be given disciplinary punishment or be investigated for their criminal responsibility.
They have attached importance to improving relations between party organizations and the masses and between cadres and the masses so as to promote stability and economic development in rural areas.
Leaders of the State Administration of Radio, Film and Television have decided to implement the work of maintaining the party's political discipline in propaganda work and guarantee that the media must continue to provide proper guidance in a solid manner in view of the special characteristics of radio, film and television industries.Meanwhile, they have further implemented the principle of "separating revenue from expenditures" and actively strengthened supervision over the government procurement system and the lawful use and management of special funds for the project of "enabling people in all villages to listen radio and watch television broadcasts."
The results of the New Hampshire presidential primaries on 1 February are in.According to the preliminary figures, U.S. Vice President Gore got 52 percent of the votes, which on top of his victory in the Iowa primaries on 24 January deals another blow to Senator Bradley, his opponent in the Democratic party.
The New Hampshire primaries have consolidated Gore's front-runner position and further boosted his strength to win the presidential nomination of the Democratic party.
On the Republican side, the most explosive news coming out of the New Hampshire primaries was the overwhelming victory of Arizona Senator McCain, who garnered 49 percent of the vote.His support far surpassed that of Texas governor George Walker Bush, who won the Iowa primary.
Bush got 30 percent of the vote, placing him second.
Analysts believe that the New Hampshire primary means that Bush is facing a serious new challenge, and also shows that the struggle for the Republican party nomination is getting much hotter.
New Hampshire is situated in the northeastern part of the United States, with a population of only ten million.
However, this little state occupies a decisive position during the presidential primaries, and not only can it make the next president, it can also bury the political prospects of presidential candidates.
The situation over the past 10-20 years shows that most of those who gain the White House have won in the New Hampshire primaries.
Former presidents Eisenhower, Carter, Reagan, and Bush were all victors in the New Hampshire primaries.
Gore is the only Democratic party presidential candidate in the past twenty years who has won in both Iowa and New Hampshire.
His campaign strategy relies heavily on the economic card, energetically touting the economic achievements since he and Clinton took office as well as claiming that only he has the experience and the ability to "maintain America's prosperity."
Bradley tried to turn the situation around in New Hampshire after his resounding defeat in the Iowa primary, but was ineffective.
Gore said that the New Hampshire primary was a "crushing blow" to Bradley.
However, Bradley has indicated that he will not withdraw from the race, but will rally his forces and challenge Gore in the upcoming primaries.
The New Hampshire primaries have turned the original five-man race in the Republican party into a two-man struggle, with fight for the nomination being primarily between Bush and McCain.
McCain did not enter the campaign in Iowa, making New Hampshire his main battlefield instead.
There he adopted the campaign strategy of "concentrating superior forces," throwing more time and money into it than any other candidate did and organizing more than 100 voter rallies statewide.
In the polls conducted before the primary, support for McCain exceed that for Bush for eight weeks in a row.
McCain hopes the victory in New Hampshire will be a springboard to winning the presidential nomination.
During the campaign, Bush stated that his large tax cut plan represents the interest of conservative Republicans, and that he is the only one with the ability to take back the White House in the presidential election in November.
He charged that McCain's tax cut plan was similar to that of Clinton's.
Bush indicated that the New Jersey primary was only a "stumble on the road to the White House," and that he was fully confident that he would win the Republican presidential nomination.
Bush has more in his campaign war chest than any other presidential candidate, and he has also established a nationwide campaign organization, receiving the support of numerous congressmen and party officials.Because of this, Bush is still in a relatively strong position in the race overall.
McCain has been a congressman for many years.He was in the Vietnam War, and spent five and a half years as a prisoner of war.
He believes that, because he has served longer in government than Bush and also was in the Vietnam War that he is the best choice as a presidential candidate.
McCain advocates a moderate tax cut, saying that the budget surplus should be used to pay off the national debt and for the social security system and medical insurance programs.
He has indicated that he would pursue campaign finance reforms to eliminate money's influence in politics.
Public opinion believes that in New Hampshire, independents voters -- who are neither Democratic nor Republican -- account for as much as 40 percent, and this part of the electorate played an important role in McCain's primary victory.
Following New Hampshire, Gore and Bradley will start a new round of competition on March 7.
At that time, 16 states nationwide will conduct primaries on the same day.
If Bradley continues to decline, pressure within the party may force him to withdraw from the race.
Prior to the 7 March primaries, the Republican presidential candidates will also confront each other again in Delaware, South Carolina, Arizona, and Michigan.
The World Economic Forum's first meeting of the new millennium held in the small town of Davos in eastern Switzerland spanned six days and came to a close on 1 February.
About 3,000 well-known figures in political, economic, and academic circles from more than 100 countries and territories embraced the theme of "New Beginning, New Ideas" to discuss the future developments and prospects of international politics, economics, and science and technology.
The focus of this annual meeting is no longer on how to resolve the thorny crisis situation; rather it is to explore the more basic, long-term issues in world economic development.
At the beginning of the new millennium, the participants took advantage of this gathering to explore new ideas and chart a new course for world development in the new century.
In the more than 300 rounds of discussions at this economic forum, the participants discussed such topics as globalization, the development of science and technology, electronic commerce, the internet, genetic and genome technologies, as well as terrorism, nuclear proliferation, poverty, environmental pollution, and corruption.
Economic globalization has made the countries around the world increasingly more dependent on one another for economic development.
The United States' economy has been the engine driving world economic growth in recent years.
To date, that economy has sustained 107 months of continuous growth.
In the "new economic" era, when information technology continues to drive economic growth, the United States' economy continues to have growth potential, but there is also potential danger in their stock market bubble and soaring corporate and personal debt.
For this reason, the participants paid special attention to the prospects of the United States' economic development, especially whether it can continue to spur world economic growth.
In addition, China's economy as a growing force to be reckoned with in the global economy is another area that attracted much attention.
At the special symposium on China held on the 29th, Vice Premier Wu Bangguo delivered a speech entitled "China's Economy Gears To the 21st Century" and introduced to the participants the strategic key points of China's future economic development, which include the strategic readjustments of the economic structure and the implementation of the strategy to open up the western region and other grand plans.
Wu Bangguo said China's development cannot be separated from the rest of the world, and world prosperity also needs China.
Upon joining the WTO, China will enjoy its rights but will also fulfill its obligations.
In view of the failure of the minister-level WTO meeting in Seattle, many participants wondered when another round of multilateral trade talks should be launched.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair said the international community should learn from the failure of the Seattle meeting and let a new round of negotiations bring forth more benefits even sooner.
He proposed forming an "Eminent Persons Group" to make plans for improving the WTO's work method and hoped a tentative program could be worked out by this summer.
At the same time, representatives of the developing countries expressed great concern for the widening gap between the rich and the poor in the electronic age.
Jordan's King Abdullah II said in his speech that today more than half of the world's population is still subsisting on less than $2 a day, while the richest one-fifth of the world's population owns more than 66 times the resources of the poorest one-fifth.
South Africa's President Mbeki said that the information revolution brought by the internet has further widened the gap between the developing and the developed countries.
He said that to narrow the gap, the developing countries must unite and take the same stand in the new round of multilateral trade negotiations to make it a bona fide "development round."
At this annual meeting of the World Economic Forum, President Arafat of the Palestinian Authority described in his speech a construction blueprint for the Middle East after achieving peace there.
He once again called upon the international community to take steps to salvage the peace process so that the Middle East people can look forward to a peaceful, free, and prosperous new century.
This annual meeting was held at the beginning of the new millennium under fairly good world economic conditions, but Klaus Schwab, founder of the World Economic Forum, said at the opening ceremony on the 27th that people must not be complacent.
The questions of whether the United States' economy will once again overheat, whether the weak Euro can recover, whether the recovery of the Asian economy will be sustained, which way the Russian economy will head as it stands at the crossroads, and how to balance North-South development and other problems still loom, and they are not problems the World Economic Forum can solve.They require long-term attention from all parties.
Beijing, 2 Feb (Xinhua) -- The China Council for Promoting Peaceful Reunification, the Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan and Overseas Chinese Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and the Huangpu Military Academy Alumni Association held a forum in Beijing on 2 February to mark the fifth anniversary of the publication of President Jiang Zemin's major speech "Continued Striving for the Promotion of the Accomplishment of the Great Cause of the Motherland's Reunification."
Wan Guoquan, president of the China Council for Promoting Peaceful Reunification, spoke at the meeting.
He said that Jiang Zemin's major speech had deeply, systematically, and comprehensively expounded the basic principles and policies of the Chinese Communist Party on solving the Taiwan issue and accomplishing the motherland's reunification.The speech, a programmatic document and guiding thought on solving the Taiwan issue at the current stage, reflected the consistency and continuity of the Chinese Communist Party's and the Chinese government's Taiwan policy, which not only helped maintain the state sovereignty and territorial integrity but also respected Taiwan compatriots' lifestyles and wishes to be masters of their destiny, thereby attracting attention from the international community and winning support and responses from overseas Chinese and from compatriots in Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan.
Wang Guoquan pointed out that Taiwan separatist forces as represented by Lee Teng-hui [Li Denghui] have ignored the interests of the Chinese nation, disregarded the welfare of the 22 million people on Taiwan, resorted to all means in a vain attempt to cut off Taiwan's ties with the mainland, tossed off the "two-states theory," and intentionally split China's territory and sovereignty, which not only undermined peace and security in the Taiwan Strait but also ran counter to the wishes of Taiwan compatriots for stability, peace, and development, thereby incurring the unanimous condemnation by all Chinese people and by the international community.
He said that Vice Premier Qian Qichen pointed out at a forum marking the fifth anniversary of the publication of President Jiang Zemin's major speech that the correctness, scientific nature, all-embracing nature, and feasibility of the "one country, two systems" concept put forward by Comrade Deng Xiaoping have been fully proven in the successful implementation in Hong Kong and Macao.
China will practice an even more relaxed policy than the ones applied to Hong Kong and Macao to solve the Taiwan issue under the framework of the "one country, two systems."
He expressed the belief that through cross-strait talks, a solution can surely be found that will not only satisfy the wishes and demands of Taiwan compatriots but also fully take into consideration the interests of various social classes in Taiwan.
The hard-working, brave, clever, and wise Chinese people can surely solve their own affairs and will finally realize the motherland's complete reunification.
More and more Taiwan compatriots will finally come to believe that the "one country, two systems" is the best way to safeguard the interests of all concerned.
Also speaking at the forum were Zhu Xun, chairman of the Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan and Overseas Chinese Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference; Cai Zimin, vice chairman of the Hong Kong, Macao, Taiwan and Overseas Chinese Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and honorary chairman of the Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League central committee; Jiang Dianming, vice president of the All-China Taiwan Studies Society; Li Jiaquan, research fellow at the Institute of Taiwan Studies of the Academy of Social Sciences; Lin Shanyuan, vice president of the Huangpu Military Academy Alumni Association; and Wen Qiang, member of the executive council of the Huangpu Military Academy Alumni Association.
The forum was chaired by Wang Wenyuan, vice chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and president of the China Council for Promoting Peaceful Reunification.
Some 50 persons, including Zhou Tienong, vice chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and president of the China Council for Promoting Peaceful Reunification; responsible persons from departments concerned; some members of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference who are in Beijing; some notables; and representatives of the Huangpu Military Academy Alumni, attended the forum.
Haikou, 2 Feb (ZXS) -- Hainan Governor Wang Xiaofeng pointed out today that since the establishment of the province 12 years ago, an increasing number of Taiwan compatriots have come to Hainan to make investments.Taiwan-invested enterprises have made positive contributions to Hainan's development and construction.
He said that Hainan will realistically protect the legitimate rights and interests of Taiwan investors in Hainan, further promote and actuate the building of the cross-strait (Hainan) agricultural cooperative experimental zone, and give further impetus to exchanges and cooperation between the two islands of Hainan and Taiwan.
In order to commemorate the 5th anniversary of the issuance of President Jiang Zemin's instruction on "making continued efforts to promote the fulfillment of the great cause of the reunification of the motherland," the Hainan Provincial CPC Committee and government today held a Spring Festival forum here with Taiwan compatriots, Taiwan businessmen, and their family members.Representatives from such organs and mass organizations as the provincial committee of the All-China Federation of Taiwan Compatriots, the provincial committee of the Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League, the provincial Association of Taiwan-invested Enterprises, and the provincial Federation of Family Members of Taiwan Compatriots were invited to the forum.
Wang Xiaofeng gave the above statement at the forum.
Wang Xiaofeng said: Five years ago, President Jiang Zemin gave an eight-point proposal on developing cross-strait relations and advancing the process of the peaceful reunification of the motherland.This was the Chinese government's sincere expression on resolving the Taiwan issue which struck a responsive chord in the hearts of the Chinese people at home and abroad.
However, in disregard of the sincerity of mainland China and the common interests of the Chinese nation, Lee Teng-hui [Li Denghui] made all kinds of moves departing from the one-China principle.Last year he trotted out the "Two-State Theory" in a vain attempt to split China.This was strongly opposed by the Chinese people, including the Taiwan compatriots.
As the sons and daughters of the Chinese nation, we will surely realize the complete reunification of the motherland and the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation at an early date.
He pointed out: Taiwan compatriots have the glorious tradition of patriotism, which is the basic strength for realizing the peaceful reunification of the motherland.Taiwan compatriots will surely be able to make a correct choice on the issue concerning the future of Taiwan that is beneficial to peaceful unification.
In the meantime, he also affirmed the contributions made by Taiwan compatriots in Hainan's development and construction.
He pointed out: Since the establishment of the province 12 years ago, 1,274 Taiwan-invested enterprises have made investments totaling $1.2 billion in Hainan.Taiwan-invested enterprises have made positive contributions to Hainan's development and construction.
He said: Hainan will put forward "detailed rules" for the implementation of the "PRC detailed rules for the implementation of the Law on Protecting Taiwan Compatriots" in line with Hainan's actual situation in an effort to realistically protect the legitimate rights and interests of Taiwan compatriots; at the same time, we hope that we will make joint efforts to further promote and give impetus to the building of the cross-strait (Hainan) agricultural cooperative experimental zone and further propel exchanges and cooperation between the two islands of Hainan and Taiwan.
Representatives of Taiwan compatriots, Taiwan businessmen, family members of Taiwan compatriots and related organs and mass organizations gave speeches at the forum one after another.
Mr. Chiang Yu-ch'ang, Taiwan businessman and vice president of the provincial committee of the Association of Taiwan-invested enterprises, said: I am a Taiwan businessman and I have made investments in Hainan for many years.I feel that realizing cross-strait "three links" at an early date and achieving unification is conducive to the development of our investment.The statement made by President Jiang Zemin on promoting the reunification of the motherland five years ago is in the fundamental interests of compatriots on both sides of the stratit.
Lee Ch'iung-mei, vice president of the provincial committee of the All-China Federation of Taiwan compatriots, said: President Jiang Zemin's speech given five years ago showed strong affections and sincerity, having a very strong influential power.
The reunification of the motherland and family reunion symbolize the love of compatriots and the basic demands of national sentiments.
In the speech of Ku Yuan-yang, president of the provincial committee of the Federation of Family Members of Taiwan Compatriots, said : The smooth handover of Hong Kong and Macao shows that the peaceful reunification of the motherland is a general trend and settling the Taiwan issue at an early date is in favor with the compatriots on both sides of the strait.
Cai Changsong, deputy secretary of the Hainan Provincial CPC Committee; Hong Shouxiang, standing committee member of the provincial party committee and director of the propaganda department; and Li Dongsheng and Wang Qiongying, vice governors of Hainan Province, attended the forum.
United Nations, 7 Feb (Xinhua) -- Recently, the US "Sitelatefu [2448 3676 2139 3676 4395] Association" published an Internet article, entitled "Kosovo: United States Seeks Ways To Extricate Itself."The article held that last year's Kosovo War has bogged down the United States in an inextricable quagmire, and the United States' European allies are not cooperating now that it wants to withdraw its troops from Kosovo.
It said: Life will only become harder if US forces are garrisoned for the long term in Kosovo.
I cannot help but recall two old Chinese sayings after reading this article: Getting enmeshed in a web of one's own spinning, and lifting a rock only to drop it on one's own feet, which truly portray the dilemma in which the United States is caught in Kosovo.
Last March, US-led NATO flaunted the banner of humanitarianism, and wantonly and indiscriminately bombed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia [FRY] without UN Security Council authorization.
The 78-day military operation gravely trampled on the "UN Charter" and international laws, and caused heavy casualties and property losses in the FRY.
For a period of time, the US government, public, and media boasted enormously about their victory and were insufferably arrogant.
However, as time goes by, some people have to admit that the severity of the outcome of this war is unexpected.
Now, quite a number of people in the US Congress and research organizations believe that the government had miscalculated.Initially, it thought that the FRY would succumb without a fight after enduring a few days of powerful NATO military strikes.Unexpectedly though, the desired result was not obtained after more than two months of air strikes, and the matter was only wound up after it was taken up by the United Nations.
Ethnic conflicts have intensified further instead of disappearing after US-led NATO troops were garrisoned in Kosovo in the name of UN peacekeeping.
Not only have violent conflicts escalated in Kosovo, but NATO troops have become the target of attacks.
The Albanian "Kosovo Liberation Army" [KLA] supported vigorously by NATO troops has persisted in its old ways, has conflicted with Serbs now and then, and also constantly has open fights with NATO troops.
Some people in the United States exclaimed: US forces are in the Albanian and Serb "crossfire," and could well be "drawn into the danger of Kosovo civil war."
The "Sitelatefu Association" article said: Now, the US Government is considering "redefining" its Kosovo policy, and the core will be military withdrawal from Kosovo.
US Defense Secretary Cohen flew to Munich last week, hoping also to work on the European allies.
He complained: US forces serve as policemen in Kosovo but lack the training required, and the US Government does not wish them to do such work.The Kosovo situation has the tendency to get out of control, and the European allies should shoulder more obligations.
According to US claims, the European allies have agreed to garrison police units in Kosovo, and will form a multinational force before April this year to uphold peace in Kosovo, so that US forces can extricate themselves.
However, in reality, the European allies have no such desire.
European countries, besides Britain, lacked enthusiasm in the Kosovo military operation in the first place, and flinch from advancing forward now that they are faced with such a chaotic situation.
Some people even believe that the United States asked for it since it refused to heed advice initially and had made a mess of things.
People here opined: The prerequisite for the United States to militarily withdraw from Kosovo is the agreement of European countries to fill the vacuum left by US forces, but persuading the European allies to help clear up the messy situation is easier said than done.
The United States should really think things over now that it could not extricate itself from the Kosovo quagmire.
The United States has always wanted to become the world's big brother, and has promoted power politics and hegemonism everywhere.If it continues to be its old self, it will not be able to avoid the disastrous roads of failure it took in North Korea, Vietnam, Somalia, and other places.
Hong Kong, 8 Feb (ZTS) -- The idea of establishing "three links" across the Taiwan strait, namely direct transport, postal, and commercial links, has been the urgent demand of the nongovernment public in Taiwan for many years, and it has now become an important variable for the candidates in influencing people's voting trends in Taiwan's presidential election, and affecting the overall situation in the election.
The five groups participating in the election will unavoidably aim the crux of the election race at the question of cross-strait transport links and regard this as a profitable policy in terms of winning votes.
State President Jiang Zemin, speaking on new year's day, reiterated the guideline of "peaceful reunification, one country, two systems" and the concept of "Jiang's eight points," and again raised his two "pinning of hopes," that is "pinning hopes on the Taiwan authorities, and still more, on the Taiwan people"; he appealed for the two sides to hold dialogue and negotiations under the "one China" principle.
The nongovernment public in Taiwan widely believes that holding dialogue and negotiations on establishing the cross-strait "three links" is the best choice for responding to Jiang Zemin's new year's day remarks and is also based on Taiwan's urgent needs; such a move can enhance cross-strait economic cooperation and also break through cross-strait estrangement.
There are now 41,000 Taiwan-funded enterprises on the mainland with agreed funds exceeding $43.5 billion, and over 1.7 million cross-strait journeys are made by their work personnel every year; and the inability to resolve the "three links" problem causes huge extra costs for business circles.
The "three links" constitute a key which can open the mental block between the two sides of the strait and also promote mutual understanding; after the two sides have gradually come to know each other, the people of Taiwan will be happy to accept "one country, two systems," and thus peaceful reunification will be achieved.
Professor Chang Lin-chih of Taiwan University pointed out in a Taiwan TV program that the Taiwan authorities have erected obstacles over the question of cross-strait transport links, with the result that it is completely impossible to develop the "Asia-Pacific operations center."
She analyzed that foreign enterprises will certainly not come to Taiwan if they have to incur the cost of a much longer circuitous route when going to the mainland -- like Matzu temple worshippers having to detour around Japan's (Shiyuan) [4258 0997] island -- thus being unable to make any profit on it.
According to people in the Taiwan airline business, at present over 3.8 million passengers annually are flying to both sides of the strait to do business, view the scenery, or visit relatives; at a conservative estimate aviation business opportunities total at least 15 billion New Taiwan yuan; if air cargo volume, air catering, aviation support services, aircraft maintenance and other related businesses are included, the figure could exceed 30 billion.
Hence, while the Taiwan authorities are clamoring that the "three links" problem must be handled in accordance with the procedure of the "national reunification program" plan, airline companies which want direct flights as soon as possible have long ago sent staff to the mainland to investigate the market and have also engaged in cooperative business with well-known mainland airline companies; they have also maintained good ties with the Civil Aviation Administration of China, in preparation for direct flights.
Back in 1997 Taiwan's China Airlines used Hong Kong and Macao airports as its springboards for cooperation with mainland airlines for "single ticketing" and "through baggage labels"; in the past two years there has been a rapid increase in transit passengers and cargo there.
At the same time China Airlines has established an office in Beijing through its US-registered "Sino-US Investment Company," and it is now planning to set up offices in Shanghai, the main commercial city of central China, and Guangzhou, south China's biggest window on the world, as its main bases for advancing on the mainland after direct flights commence.
Taiwan's Chang Jung Aviation, which is closely following China Airlines in establishing an office in Beijing, will also soon establish an office in Shanghai.
In order to respond to the vast business opportunities in the future when there are direct cross-strait flights, Taiwan's Fu Hsing Aviation has spent a huge sum on buying medium and long-range versions of the European Airbus.
Taiwan's Far East Aviation has sent staff to the mainland to learn the technical aviation terms which differ from those used in Taiwan, so as to complete all the prearrangement work before direct flights commence.
It is learned that all these four airline companies have stated that they will send aircraft to the mainland as soon as the Taiwan authorities announce direct flights.
As for sea transport, all shipping companies hold that direct routes represent the inevitable trend, and it is absolutely impossible to ignore the important status and impact of the mainland's vast market in Asia.
At present the main Taiwan shipping companies have apparently completed their "struggle for berths" and associated preparatory work prior to the opening of direct sea routes.Even the government-run Taiwan Navigation Company, which has never operated regular container services, has decided to take back two multipurpose container ships that it has leased to Li Jung Navigation, in preparation for opening cross-strait container routes between three ports.
In the face of the strong momentum of calls inside and outside Taiwan for the "three links," the election candidates profoundly realize that the "three links" are a major issue and an entrance ticket in the election battle, and they can only win people's favor by acceding to their wishes.
Regarding the ideas of the five candidates, Lien Chan, Song Chu-yu, Ch'en Shui-pien, Hsu Hsin-liang, and Li Ao, on the "three links," public opinion inside and outside Taiwan holds that although there are differences in degree between them, or that the feasibility still needs to be assessed, all those who are out of office are showing positive initiative and there is no lack of bold innovative thinking.
Hsu Hsin-liang was the first of them to raise the idea of "three links," and Sung Chu-yu proposed "immediately opening direct postal and telecommunications links, direct transport links can go ahead through negotiations"; both of them are somewhat bolder and more positive than the Taiwan authorities.
As for Kuomintang candidate Lien Chan, he has not yet produced a white paper on his mainland policy; Taiwan public opinion holds that since the outside world regards Lien Chan's mainland policy as the yardstick regarding whether he will go further than Li Teng-hui and move out of Li's shadow, people are waiting to see what will happen.
TEXT: (Article by Su Ge from "Marking the Fifth Anniversary of President Jiang's Eight-Point Proposal" Column: "'One Country, Two Systems' Is the Most Feasible Pattern for Achieving Cross-Strait Reunification") (FBIS Translated Text) On the eve of the 1995 Spring Festival, President Jiang Zemin delivered an important speech entitled "Continue to Strive for Accomplishing the Great Cause of Reunifying the Motherland," in which he put forward an eight-point proposal for settling the Taiwan issue and realizing the reunification of the country in the present stage.
In the past few years, though cross-strait relations have gone through twists and turns as well as storms, tremendous changes have also taken place in this regard.
Compatriots on both sides of the strait have kept contacting with one another, various exchanges have been brisk and frequent, the investment by Taiwan businessmen in business on the mainland of the motherland has reached a given scale, and periodic progress has been made in promoting the establishment of direct links between the two sides for postal, trade, and air and shipping services.
All this eloquently proves that the desire of the Chinese people to realize the reunification of the motherland is an irresistible historical trend.
Hong Kong and Macao have successively returned to the motherland, and the historic task of striving to settle the Taiwan issue and realizing the reunification of the motherland at an early date is now ever more prominently placed before us.
As we mark the fifth anniversary of the publication of President Jiang Zemin's eight-point proposal, we should realize that one of the important historic missions is to carry forward the cause and forge ahead into the future and to further implement the great principle of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" to speed up the process of peaceful cross-strait reunification.
Hong Kong and Macao have returned to the motherland one after the other, and the influence produced by the practice of "one country, two systems" has been continuously increasing.
Now more and more people favor "one country, two system"; since it has successfully solved the Hong Kong and Macao questions, it can certainly apply to settle the Taiwan issue.
Of course, compared with the return of Hong Kong and Macao to the motherland, the process of applying "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" to Taiwan will be more complicated.
The main causes are the Taiwan authorities' obstacles and misleading.Putting on the airs of stubbornly rejecting the principle of "one country, two systems," the Taiwan authorities have vilified it as dwarfing Taiwan, claiming that "Taiwan is not Hong Kong, and 'one country, two systems' does apply to Taiwan."
In fact, realizing the ultimate reunification of the country according to the principle of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" will not impose exactly the same pattern of "one country, two systems" for Hong Kong and Macao on Taiwan.
In his speech at a Spring Festival tea party for members of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) this year, President Jiang Zemin pointed out: We pay close attention to the characteristics of Taiwan that are different from those of Hong Kong and Macao.
The content of settling the Taiwan issue and achieving peaceful reunification according to the principle of "one country, two systems" will be more relaxed than that for Hong Kong and Macao.
Vice Premier Qian Qichen also explicitly pointed out in a speech: "Realizing peaceful cross-strait reunification according the principle of 'one country, two systems' in the future will not harm the immediate and long-term interests of the Taiwan compatriots.Many Taiwan compatriots hope to maintain the status quo; for them, 'one country, two systems' is the best method to maintain the status quo."
"peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" means seeking a plan acceptable to both sides of the strait through benign interaction and by seeking common ground while reserving differences.
In the course of "equal consultation and mutual discussion on reunification" as called by Wang Daohan, chairman of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait (ARATS), everything possible should be done to maintain the status quo and to not harm the fundamental interests of the parties concerned.
After reunification, the two sides of the strait will coexist peacefully, and "no one will swallow the other."
To bring about such a "double- or multiple-win" situation, the most feasible pattern is "one country, two systems."
In all fairness, since the principle of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" was established, the mainland of the motherland has made continuous efforts to improve the principle and always given full consideration to the current situations on both sides of the strait and to the interests of various parties in the hope that the results of reunification will be accepted by the Taiwan authorities and the masses of the people.
In the course of cross-strait contacts over the past several years, the policy of the mainland of the motherland toward Taiwan, while upholding the premise of one China, has embodied flexibilities in many aspects: (1) The name of the representatives: "equal consultation" by the two sides of the strait.
(2) The course of reunification: The objective of reunifying the motherland can be achieved step by step.
As the first step, both sides can hold negotiations on "the formal end of hostilities on the principle of one China," first discuss the procedure for political negotiations, or exchange views on the establishment of direct links between the two sides for postal, trade, and air and shipping services.
(3) Compared with Hong Kong and Macao, Taiwan may retain its armed forces and personages from Taiwan may serve as state leaders after its reunification with the mainland.
After the reunification, compatriots on both sides of the strait will be able to enjoy the dignity and honor of the country together.
Since Li Denghui (Lee Teng-hui) dished out his "two-state" theory, the Chinese government and people have waged a resolute struggle against it in order to safeguard our sovereignty and territorial integrity.
The "two-state" theory has also been rebuffed everywhere in the international community.
The fact that the principle of one China has been widely accepted by the international community shows that the "two-state" theory is but a lost move by the Taiwan separatist forces as a result of their misappraisal of the situation.
Under the pressures from various quarters, the Taiwan authorities have said that they will "not amend the Constitution" or "enact laws," but they have yet to get out of the dead end of the "two-state" theory; they are still awaiting an opportunity and attempting to use other methods to separate Taiwan from China "legally."
The vital interests, major principles, and great justice of the Chinese nation require the reunification of the motherland.
It should be particularly pointed out here that the principle of one China is the most important basis of cross-strait relations.
When the principle of one China is observed, there will be an opportunity for the development and improvement of cross-strait relations; otherwise, cross-strait relations will be bound to come to a halt or even retrograde.
It is precisely because the opportunity for reunification and the challenge to it coexist that we must make preparations in two aspects: (1) We should firmly adhere to the basic principle of "peaceful reunification and one country, two systems" and President Jiang Zemin's eight-point proposal and do everything possible to strive for peaceful reunification.
(2) To prevent "Taiwan independence" and interference by foreign forces, we must effectively make preparations for safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.
Dr. Sun Yat-sen once said: "Reunification is the desire of all our nationals.
When the country is reunified, the people can enjoy a happy life; otherwise, the people will suffer."
Peaceful reunification accords with the fundamental interests of the people.
Only by settling the Taiwan issue according to the principle of "one country, two system," will it be possible to seek the common denomination to the maximum of the interests of both sides of the strait.
Of course, peaceful reunification cannot be accomplished at one stroke, and the fulfillment of the ultimate objective may include the following stages and measures: (1) Any questions can be discussed during the political negotiations under the premise of one China.
As the first step, the two sides of the strait may first conduct negotiations on the formal end of hostilities.
(2) Complementary trade and economic relations: The question that will soon face both sides of the strait is how to promote the direct links between the two sides for postal, trade, and air and shipping services in the background of the World Trade Organization (WTO).
(3) Increasing mutual trust: The Chinese people on both sides of the strait are of the same origin, and there is no fundamental conflict of interest between them that cannot be resolved.
But the "two-state" theory is a stumbling block to the development of cross-strait relations.
Whether or not the deadlock between the two sides of the strait can be broken depends on the attitude of the Taiwan authorities.
The Taiwan issue cannot delay indefinitely.
After the return of Hong Kong and Macao to the motherland, the Chinese nation will certainly be able to usher in a glorious, historical moment of complete reunification of the motherland.
British and US media recently have published many lengthy reports and analysis on Russian Acting President Putin.
Most of the reports are replete with skepticism over this Russian strongman.
For example, both The Washington Post of the United States and The Daily Telegraph of Britain have portrayed Putin as a "dangerous figure" who may bring the world back to the Cold War period.They say Putin is "playing a new nuclear soccer game" and attempts to use nuclear policy to threaten the security interests of the West.
The media of the West maintain that Russia, under its new national security concept, has loosened its control of the conditions for using nuclear weapons, and has even clearly regarded the US-led Western bloc as a "hostile force."
On the eve of the disintegration of the Soviet Union not so long ago, the highly idealistic Gorbachev firmly believed the Western theory about "common values of all mankind."His belief resulted in the disintegration of the Soviet Union and the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact.The foundation built over several decades was almost totally destroyed immediately.
The United States, however, did not respond in kind to dissolve the military bloc of NATO on the basis of the "common values of all mankind."
On the contrary, it took the opportunity to expand eastward in a big way.It even drew some former Warsaw Pact nations to its side to become its members.Moreover, it even ruthlessly disintegrated the southern wing of Russia through launching the Kosovo War.
Following the disintegration of the Soviet Union, the Russian Federation again faced the danger of yet another disintegration because of the "phenomenon of Chechen," which is a nation within a nation."
Now Russia has become more soberly aware of its fundamental interests than ever before.
We should say that Russia's major restructuring of its external security system is a response, which Russia is forced to make because of the West's insatiable, step-by-step moves to squeeze its strategic space, and absolutely not because of Russia's bellicosity.
In the late 1990's, the so-called "common values of all mankind" which the West proclaimed evolved to become the theory that "human rights take precedence over sovereignty."
The fact is that this theory is nothing but a hypocritical subterfuge.Who in those developed countries with strong economic growth and lavish consumption habits have given any food to the starving African children struggling on the line of death, basing on the belief that that "human rights take precedence over sovereignty"?
Two recent events taking places respectively in Britain and the United States can fully explain what sort of the theory -- "human rights take precedence over sovereignty" -- it is when it is applied in actual practice.
The first one was Britain's release of Chile's former president, Pinochet.
Just as The Daily Telegraph says in a commentary, if Britain, on the basis of the belief that "human rights take precedence over sovereignty," insisted on extraditing the former Chilean president to Spain for trail, it would means that a former British prime minister, when he travels in a third country, might be arrested there because of his conduct in another country.
Thus, extraditing Pinochet to Spain would be an extremely complex and sensitive international event, and Britain, after considering the issue very carefully, dared not set this dangerous precedence.
The second incidence was: When Chechen's secessionist force was at the critical point where its very existence was at stake, and sought help, even military intervention, from the United States, the US Government, while expressing profound sympathies, flatly rejected the request.
The US Government has been strongly condemning Russian troops for creating a "humanitarian crisis" in Chechen.
If the United States chose to act according to the theory that "human rights take precedence over sovereignty," then it should feel justify to send troops to Chechen, just as it did when it invaded Yugoslavia during the Kosovo War.
But American people fully understand what will be the consequence of their intervention in the Chechen War.They fully understand that it is not in the national interests of the United States.
Many world events happening after Cold War have vividly illustrated this fact, namely: Although globalization has had a profound impact on the world, the core of international relations remains politics buttressed by strength and national interests.
While globalization has weakened the traditional national interests, it cannot replace the fundamental national interests.
This is because territory, resources, population, wealth, culture, institutions and other tangible and intangible things are still demarcated by ethnic and national lines.
The wealth of the United States belongs to the United States.The resources in China belong to China.British patents belong to Britain.
National interests are still the basic principle that countries all over the world follow in making decisions or taking actions.
We may discuss and listen to the "common values of all mankind" that the Western world exalted in the late 1980's, or the theory that "human rights take precedence over sovereignty" they dished out in the 1990's, but we must not forget this irrefutable truth, namely "a weak nation has no diplomacy to speak of."
In the early winter morning, the great desert seemed sound asleep, and the whole area was in darkness as our cross-country jeep drove in.
After the lights were switched off, the jeep was like a small sandbag quietly waiting at a spot not far from the launching tower.
Inside the jeep we were enjoying the darkness, because no one could find us.
Of course, apart from myself, they were all on special security missions.
The date was 20 November 1999, a day written in the glorious annals of the Chinese nation.
At the time, however, we were anxiously waiting and worrying.
Our vehicle was so close to the launching tower, and we could clearly see the long arms of the shiny green launching tower embracing a milk-white new type of rocket pointing at the sky.
All kinds of thoughts were thronging my mind at the time, but I did not say anything, I was afraid that the others in the vehicle were in a state of anxiety, for this after all was China's first test-launch of a spaceship.
Do not think for a moment that I, a female in the military, am stupidly brave, in fact I "know what's what" and I am familiar with the veterans in charge of the spaceship's destiny.
I just wanted to watch the "Shenzhou" soar into the heaven from nearby ...
After the triumph, I can finally talk about it now.
Wang Yongzhi [3769 3057 1807] is the chief designer in China's manned spaceflight project, and so far the missiles and carrier rockets designed under his charge have never failed.
This time, however, I saw at the launch site that there was a big question mark on his face, his heavy eyebrows were knitted, and he was intently looking at the rocket and the spacecraft.Only his hairstyle indicated the personality of the main in charge: black and strong, and very neat.It was not hard to see that this fellow of the Chinese Engineering Academy, now in his 60's, has the heart of a young man striving for outstanding achievements.
It is no surprise that chief designer Wang attracts young men.
His technical assistant Sun Gongling [1327 0501 0407] is an outstanding engineer with a master's degree.When joining the project team in 1992, young Sun received a notice of enrolment as a space engineering professorial research fellow at the Georgia Technical Institute in the United States, but he staunchly followed chief engineer Wang and donned military uniform.
I really admire chief designer Wang's powers of attraction.
I asked Sun Gongling, "Why did you throw away the chance to get a professorship in the United States and chose instead to be chief designer Wang's technical assistant?"
"Things that chief designer Wang has correctly identified can certainly be achieved, and they can be done in outstandingly successful fashion."
Sun Gongling's eyes were bright as he said this, as if he had already seen the spacecraft soaring into the sky.
He quickly added something worth pondering: "A man's attraction lies in his wisdom and boldness."
I agree with this.
Qian Xuesen, the father of China's space effort, first recognized and favored Wang Yongzhi's wisdom and boldness.
That was in June 1964, when Wang Yongzhi went to the Gobi for the first time to undertake the task of launching the first medium-short-range missiles developed by China itself.
During the test firing, the missile's range was not long enough.
The experts considered how to add more propellant to the rocket, but as the rocket' fuel tanks were limited, it was not possible to feed in any more.
Just when everyone was racking their brains to think of a solution, a young lieutenant stood up and said: "If the propellant temperature is high when the rocket is launched, its density will be reduced, thus the motor's throttle characteristic will change accordingly.
After calculation, if 600 kg of fuel are unloaded from the rocket, the missile will hit the target."
Everyone suddenly looked at the young man's face.
The experts could hardly believe their ears.
Someone said impolitely: "The rocket's capacity was already insufficient, yet you want to remove some of the fuel?"
They then took no notice of his suggestion.
Wang Yongzhi, however, was not reconciled to this; he thought of Qian Xuesen, the technical director at the Jiuquan launch site and a great scientist; just before the launch, he plucked up his courage and went to Qian Xuesen's house.
At the time Qian Xuesen was not very familiar with this "young fellow," but after listening to his views, his eyes brightened and he joyfully exclaimed: "Call the rocket's chief designer here immediately."
Pointing at Wang Yongzhi, Qian Xuesen said to the chief designer: "This young man's opinion is correct, and do as he says!"
It turned out that the rocket's range lengthened after some of the propellant was removed, and all the three missiles launched hit the target.
Qian Xuesen remembered Wang Yongzhi from that time.
When China started to develop its second-generation missiles, Qian Xuesen proposed: Let the second-generation people be in charge of the second-generation strategic missiles, make Wang Yongzhi the chief designer.
The iron arms on the launch tower opened up, and the long rapier in the crystal palace, outlined against the sky, displayed its heroic posture.
I knew that it would be Wang Yongzhi controlling the rocket bundle's "portrait rights."
On 16 July 1990 when China successfully launched its first rocket bundle at Xichang, he had been the chief person responsible for its development.
I concentrated my gaze on a tall and straight rocket; it contained a great deal of new technology, such as that used for checking and dealing with faults, and it was completely reliable.
The manned spaceflight project has seven major subsystems, and each system has a chief designer and director.
Liu Zhusheng [0491 4554 3932], chief designer of the rocket, jokingly said to me: "Chief designer Wang has never asked me if the rocket will work properly, I really wanted to tell him that he need not worry, there is no problem with the rocket."
I laughed: "Good idea, I will tell him for you."
That day I told Wang Yongzhi what Liu Zhusheng had said.Gratified, chief Wang smiled: "I know Liu Zhusheng, he is very careful."
Rocket director Huang Chunping [7806 2504 1627] said, however: There are over 300,000 parts of the rocket, and if just one of them goes wrong, it will affect the launch precision and may even cause failure.
It seemed that the alarm bell needed to ring for a long time.
At this time the launch tower was completely opened up, and the rocket and spacecraft were all displayed before our eyes.
What people worried about was the spacecraft atop the rocket.
On 16 November I sat in a room with Qi Faren [2058 4099 6514], chief designer of the "Shenzhou" spacecraft and listened to his opinions; he was well aware that I was in the general installation department, but he frankly told me: "This spaceflight launch was decided by deputy director Shen; if it is successful it will be due to wise and correct leadership, but if it fails I will have been fooled by him."
Curious, I asked: "Why?"
Director Qi bluntly said: "In the past I did not agree that the first new rocket should carry a spacecraft, moreover this is a prototype and a joint training in space hardware, but now I am more and more confident."
The three-cabin scheme for the spacecraft was proposed by Wang Yongzhi.
It means: The orbital cabin is the place where the astronauts live and work; the reentry cabin is the spacecraft's control center, and the astronauts sit in there during the launch and reentry; and the propulsion cabin provides energy and power for the spacecraft in orbit and in reentry.
What should be done about the new carrier rocket?
There were different opinions on this.
The spaceflight departments proposed: The risk of sending up a prototype spacecraft is too great, and we should have a good match to be on the safe side.
Shen Rongjun held that since they had already undertaken to the CPC Central Committee to "strive for 1998 and ensure 1999," they must be credible, and they could send up the spacecraft in 1999 in accordance with the demands of the proper technology.
It all depends on human effort, and China must take a good first step in manned spaceflight.
Wang Yongzhi went to consult Shen Rongjun [3088 2837 7486]: "We should attach a spacecraft to the rocket, but what happens if progress on the spacecraft's motor lags behind?"
Shen Rongjun immediately flew to Shanghai and went personally to the Shanghai Space Technology Research Academy, which was developing the spacecraft's motor, to find out what was going on.
He investigated the technical situation and conducted serious analysis and study with the leadership of the academy and the institute and with the main technical staff.The unanimous view was that although there were risks, they would be able, through effort, to ensure the spacecraft's safe reentry.
The scheme was then submitted to a joint meeting of the "two chiefs" (the chief director and the chief designer), and a consensus was reached and a decision made under the auspices of Minister Cao Gangchuan.
In the affairs of men, it always happens that a correct choice will determine your success.
And for Lieutenant General Shen Rongjun, deputy director of China's manned spaceflight, the pressure was very heavy, because he strongly advocated that the first launch of the spacecraft must go into space and successfully return.
His decisionmaking choice was related to whether this undertaking would succeed or fail, and he profoundly felt the great difficulty of his task.
China's first spacecraft was given the same "Shenzhou" by President Jiang Zemin personally.
Central Military Commission Vice Chairman Chi Haotian went to Jiuquan space city and told all those involved in the tests: "There are three great events in 1999: the 50th anniversary of the founding of the state; the reversion of Macao to the motherland; and the task which you are about to complete of sending China's first spacecraft into space."
This China's first spacecraft launch.
Minister Cao Gangchuan and Political Commissar Li Jinai know their subordinates sufficiently well to delegate appropriate responsibilities to them; they handed to Shen Rongjun the heavy task of the manned spaceflight and let him take overall responsibility.
When the Jiuquan satellite launch site was starting construction in the late 1950's, Shen Rongjun, who had just graduated from university, volunteered to go to the great desert; by now he has taken part in and directed more than 50 missile tests and rocket and satellite launches.
He is a renowned spaceflight observation and control expert and also a launch controller of great experience.
This means that he shoulders heavy burdens.
For him, every launch is a test.
But he is a a tough fellow who displays not the slightest ambivalence in the face of risks; his sole pursuit is to make the correct choice based on the state's interests.
On 4 October Shen Rongjun was told in a urgent phone call from the launch site that there was a problem with a part of the spacecraft's control system.
The following day he flew to the launch site and immediately convened a technical discussion meeting on whether to open up the craft to carry out crash repairs.
There were two diametrically opposed views: Some held that the reentry cabin was sealed, and to open it up to look for the fault could result in new problems.
Others held that dismantling the cabin ran the risk of a mistake in work on the ground, but if it was not dismantled, although there were reserve measures, they would be running the risk of a failure in space.
Shen Rongjun resolutely decided: "We cannot run the risk in space!
So long as the organization is tight, and the measures effective, mistakes on the ground can be avoided."
The cabin was completely opened up; in addition to solving the problem of the abnormal working of the part concerned, they also discovered and solved other problems.
In the end everyone sighed with relief.
I looked toward the launch tower; the tip of the spacecraft atop the rocket glinted in the dark desert as it moved away from the tower. 13 November, the spacecraft arrives at the launch site.
I traveled to the launch site in site commander Major General Liu Mingshan's [0491 2494 1472] car.
The road was lined with tall Xinjiang poplars standing up fine, straight, and sturdy in the desert, like sentinels guarding a narrow path.They gave people a feeling of exhilaration.
Commander Liu was full of emotion as he talked about the space city in the Gobi, and even the 180,000 Xinjiang poplars were full of vitality.
Two days previously, I and he had passed neat rows of hot houses covering 150 mu, where cucumbers, tomatoes, peppers and other seasonal vegetables were growing sturdily.
Commander Liu said proudly: "We not only need to keep people here for the undertaking, but must also create a good environment for them to stay."
The car stopped in front of a large construction; the spacecraft was just being transported in the sun to the rocket general assembly and testing plant.We followed behind and entered a brain city.
Apart from the towering rocket, there were many machine shops and equipment of all types.
Commander Liu introduced them to me in a very familiar way; it was not at all easy for so many parameters to be accurate, and I was amazed at his memory; I even wondered whether or not I needed to put so many hard to remember figures into a microcomputer.
Seizing my chance well, I asked this "master" of so many personnel, in charge of the rocket, satellites, and the spacecraft, and also of the space city with its fuel, rice, oil, and salt, and vegetable baskets, to talk about his life.
Liu Mingshan is a good talker; after graduating from university he left for the Gobi, and now he has been there 33 years and has witnessed the launch of 33 satellites from the space city plus various types of missiles and carrier rockets.
He has a lot to say about "everyone else," and he even told me that 100 percent of graduates from the space city school go on to higher education, but he did not say a work about his own family.
I was surprised at this.
I took the liberty to ask: "Does your wife work here?"
"No, she has departed.
I remember her with gratitude to the end of my life!"
At this moment, the winter sunlight was on his face, and I could see tears in his eyes.
"That is the way with life, she just departed."
He suddenly reproached himself: "She cried out several times that she had stomach pain, why did I not get her to the hospital sooner?"
I had a string of questions to ask, but I could not touch on his hurt again.
Seeing what I was thinking, he said quietly: "Renjin had stomach cancer.
I can never forget her lying on the sick bed, exhorting me with her last breath: You must get the spacecraft into space."
That afternoon I went into the space city history museum; a photograph of Liu Mingshan's wife Pan Renjin was on an honor board; a senior colonel, she was smiling, and she appeared young and very pretty.
She was an outstanding technical cadre standard-bearer here, and also an outstanding party member, who had won many awards.
Her main work here was to monitor the site's electromagnetic compatibility.
A woman suffering from serious illness who knew her fate climbed up and down the several score meter-high testing plant, so tired that when she came off shift she could not climb into a vehicle.
Because Liu Mingshan was busy with work, he failed to notice his wife's condition.
She went to Beijing for a meeting; she made a speech there in the morning, and was taken to hospital in the afternoon.
Liu remembers that tragic day: 18 April 1999.
In accordance with Pan Renjin's will, her ashes were buried in the Dongfeng martyrs mausoleum.
This mausoleum contains 604 people from the Gobi who rest in peace now; through the desert haze, they could see the motherland's rockets and satellites soaring into space and could hear the roar as the rockets rise from the launch site.
The desert wind blowing outside the mausoleum brings the rockets' thunder past the neat rows of memorials, and there is peace after the wind has passed; it is as peaceful as dreamland.
On the two rest days of the week, when things are quietest, Liu Mingshan brings flowers and stands alone before his wife's memorial.
In a man's life there is a kind of constant remembrance of gratitude, there is one thought that endures for ever, and there is a kind of person who walks alone.
Liu Mingshan is now alone, he shoulders the important commission of the motherland and people to achieve the hope his wife voiced with the dying breath -- to launch the "Shenzhou!"
Three red flares soared into the sky, and the launch countdown began.
I have come over from the hustle of the launching site, and many times I have seen Lieutenant General Shen Rongjun and Lieutenant General Hu Shixiang [5170 0013 4382], who is now deputy director of the installation department, directing satellite launches.
This is so tense that it would stop the heart of anyone there with heart disease.
However, they have the posture of generals, and they can disguise their feelings and pull through, until the launch has succeeded.
Dawn is just breaking over the launch site, and I am happy to see the rocket pointing at the sky; "good weather, favorable terrain, and friendly people" are all present, and probably nothing frightening will happen.
Just at this moment, however, Shen Rongjun and Hu Shixiang have received an urgent report: The ocean survey ship "Yuanwang no. 4" which is undertaking the monitoring and control task at sea has encountered a force-10 storm at latitude 37 degrees south in the South Pacific.
Shen Rongjun and Hu Shixiang exchanged views, then gave the decisive order: "Launch according to plan.
Better that 'No. 4' does not monitor, but security must be ensured."
They swiftly relayed this from the launch site to the command center.
Appearing before leading comrades of the State Council and Central Military Commission, although they felt great psychological pressure, they had tempered their cool and stubborn disposition during many complex and dangerous launches, and become composite commanders full of self-confidence.
Later I found out that the four "Yuanwang" ships had overcome seven strong typhoons and passed through many complex and dangerous sea areas in steaming a total of 62,000 nautical miles in 259 days, equivalent to three times around the world, and they completely fulfilled their sea monitoring and control tasks.
At 0630, the great desert trembled, the firmament shook, and orange flames lifted the rocket and the spacecraft with thunderous roar into the sky and into space.
Below the launching tower ablaze with light, I bumped into Major General Zhang Jianqi [1728 1696 0796], deputy commander of the launch site.
He is bold and careful; he stayed at the launch site during the launch.
In his view, manned spaceflight is a life project.
In 1997, the day after completing the task of astronaut selection, he received an order to enter the Jiuquan satellite launch center.
He told me: "Any small mistake now will affect the safety of the astronauts' lives."
On 13 November, I witnessed a huge iron hook installing the spacecraft onto the rocket nose, over 90 meters high!
The spacecraft had already been fuelled.
Tense, my hands were sweating.
But when I turned to look at Zhang Jianqi, who was directing the operation, he appeared completely calm.
I suddenly thought, he has demanded that the operators repeatedly train their hand and eye skills, until the big crane can insert the welding rod first time into the aperture which only has the diameter of a 2 cm beer bottle top.
If they are as skilled as that, what is there to worry about?
Is there not a saying: The skilled are bold?
I also saw here Xu Kejun [1776 0344 0193], chief engineer at the launch site.
The article he wrote entitled "China's Future Launch Sites Should Have Two Big Technological Progress Features," which was published in Zairen Hangtian [Manned Spaceflight] magazine in 1995, was praised by China's famous scientist Qian Xuesen.
Taking a look at him, Xu Kejun appears like a military officer, slightly bald; deputy chief engineer Yuan has a full head of black hair, his eyes display drive, and he looks able and efficient.
One is 30 years older than the other.
Chief designer Qi said to Yuan Jiajun [5913 1367 6511: "I took part in developing China's first satellite when I was 30, and you are taking part in directing the development of China's first spacecraft at the age of 37."
Chief designer Qi Faren was giving Yuan Jiajun a chance to display his talent.
Chief Qi said: "I hope that there will be successors in China's space flight, with each generation getting stronger."
I asked Yuan Jiajun: "Do you know why the leadership chose you?"
He readily replied: "I have a clear idea of the technical plans and have considered them quite carefully.
I will not only fulfill on time the task assigned me by the leadership but will ensure that it exceeds the leadership's expectations."
From the most tense stage in developing the spacecraft up to the launch, every Saturday morning for 68 successive weeks Yuan helped director Qi in presiding over the weekend management meeting; these meetings coordinated the solutions to over 3,000 problems.
The evening before the launch, Yuan and the flight control group discussed things till 0400 in the morning; they prepared 64 contingency plans for the craft, and although these were not used, they thought of everything.
It is precisely all this, it is precisely the selfless contributions of those named and unnamed heroes that ensured the complete success of the flight of "Shenzhou."
Greeting the first dawn of 2000, a national flag of special significance was hoisted over Tiananmen Square -- the five-star red flag that flew through space with "Shenzhou" fluttered in the first dawn of the new year, to greet new glory for China's space flight.
In the last 20 years, China's science and technology research has made achievements which have gained the attention of the people of the world.
However, many scientists and editors have come to feel even more that the development of China's science and technology magazines has fallen far behind the development of China's science and technology itself.
China's science and technology publishers have borne the dual pressures of a surplus number of science and technology magazines and an excessive emphasis on foreign appraisal systems.
At present China has almost 4,300 kinds of science and technology magazines, with almost one or more kinds of publications for each university, research institute, and professional association.Limited inputs and the dispersion of sources have to a great extent constrained the raising of the academic level of science and technology publications, thus causing to a certain extent the lagging of China's science and technology magazines behind the development of international science and technology magazines.
In recent years, some domestic departments in charge of scientific research have shown a notably excessive emphasis on evaluating in terms of how many articles are published abroad.
The evaluation of scientific research personnel by many scientific research departments has frequently indiscriminately considered the publishing of one article abroad as equal to publishing one or more articles domestically, resulting to a great degree in attracting Chinese academic articles to publishing abroad.
According to the example of the Scientific Citation Index (SCI CDE) of the internationally renowned citation system of the United States' Institute for Scientific Information (ISI), the number of academic articles published by Chinese scientists received by the ISI in 1983 and 1997 numbered 3,475 and 10,033 articles, respectively.Among these, the Chinese scientific and technical periodicals published respectively accounted for 1,502 and 1,708 articles.
This means that in a period of 15 years, the number of articles published in scientific and technical periodicals domestically in China fell relatively by 26.2 percent.
The overemphasis on publishing abroad is not only divergent from objective reality, but also is not advantageous to the development of China's scientific and technical journals.
This is because the compilation and publication that comes out of the ISI's citation indexing database is aimed at providing services for scientific and technical information, and the items cited do not all directly affect the concrete substance of articles; so as a type of statistical analysis product, the influence itself of the data does not have an academic evaluative content and should not be deemed the authoritative data for evaluating academic publications.
In addition, the ISI database manifests a notable regional disparity in regard to the number of publications sourced in regard to certain regions.The number of publications sourced to certain countries or regions in the ISI database is not in conformity with the scientific and technological levels or overall power of certain countries or regions.
The reason we believe that the development of domestic science and technical magazines is extremely important is that, as a window for revealing scientific research results, science and technical periodicals play the dual roles of simultaneous exchange and promoting technological development.
If China's high-level scientific research results are for the most part published in foreign science and technical journals, due to the factors of cost and channels of distribution, it will be difficult to see that these results receive simultaneous first reporting domestically.
To address the objective reality of China's scientific and technical journals, the scientific funding magazine department of the National Commission for Natural Sciences Funding, in April 1999 organized and convened an international symposium on "Raising the Overall Quality of China's Scientific and Technical Periodicals".The scientists and personages from publishing circles who participated in the symposium concluded for the most part that in the future, the development of China's scientific and technical magazines most certainly must follow "planned birth," with the focus on raising quality.
In addition, the National Commission for Natural Sciences Funding and the Chinese Science Association have begun a joint provision of set amounts of funding to 100 outstanding science and technical periodicals.This definitely will promote the further heightening of the quality of these magazines.
In regard to increasing the exposure of publications, the investment into China's science and technical publications has been by far insufficient.
At present, many foreign academic journals, because they have established specialized web pages on the Internet, not only have provided weekly content for articles to be published, but some have even set up links to vast information databases.
These methods undoubtedly will expand the influence of the publications as well as the frequency with which the articles in the publications are quoted.At the same time, these methods will also increase subscribers.
In these respects, China's domestic publications at present include only a minute number of scientific and technical journals, which are in an initial stage of development and await strengthening.
China's scientific and technical journals should additionally fully pay attention to publicity and distribution work.
Compared with the complete marketing networks and contacts and advanced advertising methods employed by foreign publishers, the level of China's distribution work for its scientific and technical periodicals is still relatively backward, and this is extremely obvious in the existing 148 English editions of scientific and technical publications.
At present, China's majority of English editions of scientific and technical publications have only some tens of editions that are subscribed to by foreigners, and even these few are not sufficiently marketed in foreign distribution channels.
If China's English- edition scientific and technical publications unite together and seek suitable, highly efficient partners abroad, they might find in the near term some fairly feasible and effective foreign avenues of distribution.
As for the situation at present, China's scientific and technical periodicals must raise their overall quality and increase the progress of their international contacts, not only requiring the arduous efforts of editorial departments, but even more requiring the close attention and large-scale support of scientific and technical departments and people in scientific circles.
[Cai Tongchen] The new term "Clintonism" has appeared on the international scene since the Gulf war.
What is Clintonism, and what does it involve? [Jin Yinan] Since Monroe was elected President in 1817, many US Presidents have given their name to a "doctrine."
For instance there was the Monroe Doctrine that "America is America for Americans," the Roosevelt Doctrine of carrot and stick, the Truman Doctrine of organizing the Cold War and encirclement, the Nixon Doctrine of narrowing the depth of intervention, and so on.
The new doctrine of "Clintonism" has emerged since the Gulf war and the breakup of the Soviet Union.
There is no accurate definition of Clintonism.
Some say that Clintonism is US post-Cold War neo-interventionism; others say that this intervention has the label of "human rights transcend sovereignty" stuck on it; and still others hold that there is nothing complex about this doctrine, it is just a way of expressing policy with bombs, and we can draw up the following list: In 1993 he launched air strikes against Iraq; in 1994 he took the "Mogadishu action" against Somalia; in 1994 and 1995, the invading army reached the gates and forced the toppling of the government of Haiti; in 1995 he launched air strikes on Serb positions in Bosnia and forced the parties in the Bosnian conflict to sign the "Dayton Accord;" in September 1996 he launched missile strikes against Iraq; in September 1998 he launched missile attacks on Afghanistan and Sudan; in December 1998 he launched the "Desert Fox" air action against Iraq; and on 24 March 1999 he launched the Kosovo war.
Clinton is the first US President in half a century to have done no military service.
Now in the eighth year of his presidency, he has become the President who has issued the greatest number of air strike orders in history.
Under his command, the combat operations of the US Air Force have increased by 400 percent over the Cold War.
Clinton himself is not only termed the "air strike President" by public opinion; his diplomacy is also described as "air strike diplomacy" in Western diplomatic circles.
Even though no one has added color and emphasis in summing up what "Clintonism" is, his method of being quick to drop bombs or launch missiles has long made him the President with the greatest enthusiasm in US history for reaching his political goals by the use of force. [Cai Tongchen] What is the true essence of Clintonism? [Jin Yinan] The most accurate footnote to Clintonism has been provided by Secretary of State Albright.
What she said when sounding off against Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Powell in 1993 has already become a famous saying in US political circles: "You are always talking about our super military forces!
But what is the point of having these forces if we cannot use them?"
The fiery Albright gave the true essence of Clintonism: "Use these forces," so that the world will know "the point of possessing them."
This then is the post-Cold War world in US eyes.
Since only one of the two poles remains, they must certainly seize the opportunity to make full use of this pole.
Clintonism is military hegemonism in a unipolar world, which takes US interventionist policy to the limits.
From the Middle East to the Balkans, from Somalia to Afghanistan, there seems to be no day when it is not intervening in others' affairs, and no year when it is not waging war to interfere in others' affairs.
In the course of its interventions, it has even created for the United States a new method of war: "war without engagement."
Its main aim is to take advantage of its air and technological superiority over the enemy and use hi-tech weapons from the air and sea to do tremendous damage to the enemy without coming into direct contact with the enemy's combat personnel.
The 78-day Kosovo war is an example of Clinton-style "war without engagement" and also marks the peak of the Clinton Administration's demonstration of the doctrine. [Cai Tongchen] Why did the person who took US military interventionist policy to the limit lower his tone in the UN General Assembly [UNGA], indicating that he lacked sufficient lung power? [Jin Yinan] The problem precisely occurred at the peak.
The UNGA of September 1999 became a watershed in explaining Clintonism.
At the UNGA, Western opinion universally held that the United States would give a comprehensive exposition of Clintonism, which was very much in the limelight.
A previous New York Times article said that this was the most glorious move in US Balkan policy in over 10 years, and that armed force was the only language that the Balkans understand.
Germany's Stern pictorial also said with irrepressible zest that NATO had reached the turning point in developing from a defensive alliance into an offensive organization.
Clinton's address to the UNGA on 21 September, however, greatly disappointed these people.
Clinton said: "We cannot intervene everywhere in everything," and "military intervention is not always appropriate; there are times when political and economic pressure are more effective."
This low-key address caused sparse applause among the delegates, in sharp contrast to his address in 1998, which was followed by a standing ovation.
What happened to this person who took US military intervention policy to the limit?
It was precisely in the Kosovo war, the peak of this military intervention, that Clinton looked on helplessly at the inability of his doctrine to equal his ambition.
To attack a Yugoslavia that had already been split up, the United States committed nearly one-third of its air strength, and its stock of air-launched cruise missiles was almost exhausted.
Since production of combat planes such as the F-16 has ended, there was a serious shortage of parts for round-the-clock bombing, and there was no alternative but to cannibalize aircraft of this type in the United States as an emergency replenishment.
A shortage of flight personnel meant that they had to fly when already tired, and it was also necessary to urgently mobilize the reserve at home.
A US Air Force memorandum said: "The combat units are in a difficult period, there are almost no spare engines available, and the combat equipment is almost exhausted."
Air refuelling planes, electronic warfare planes, and ground attack planes that were being used by the US Central Military Command against Iraq, and aircraft carriers used by the Pacific Command to cruise the western Pacific, were transferred to help in the action.
If the United States felt that its ability did not equal its ambition in a partial air war, how could there be any talk of the military strategy of "simultaneously winning two main theater wars?" [Cai Tongchen] The recent US performance in the Asia-Pacific region has in particular been a case of ability failing to equal ambition; what is the reason for this? [Jin Yinan] When the East Timor crisis broke out in September 1999, there was no less justification for intervention than there had been in other places, but the Americans did not come.
During the "missile crisis" on the Korean Peninsula, the Americans acted contrary to their moves in the Middle East and Europe by seeking in various ways engagement and negotiations with North Korea, in a bid for a compromise.
When Li Teng-hui dished up the "two-state theory," he expected the Americans to pull the chestnuts out of the fire for him, but they resented the retainer turning into the master.
Former National Security Adviser Brzezinski wrote in an article in the Asian Wall Street Journal that Li Teng-hui should be made to understand that "the United States does not like Taiwan making statements based on assumptions, that is, assuming that if they provoke war with the mainland, the United States will come and rescue them."
Bader, former director of Asian affairs in the National Security Council, said: "We have not undertaken not to stint the blood of American soldiers."
When will the US military, which is accustomed to using retainers, personally fight in the vanguard on behalf of a retainer?
This is the objective reason why Clintonism can hardly be swayed by people like Li Teng-hui in Asia.
Its caution and restraint in Asia are also based on the following objective factors: First of all, there is no organization like NATO in Asia.
Although there is the US-Japan security treaty, and the 100,000 troops under the US Pacific Command, it is extremely difficult for the United States to squeeze the countries of the region together and place them under its standard.
Second, it is difficult to find an opponent and theater in Asia where a war could be completed "swiftly" and "without getting in deep."
Since the Vietnam war, all US military intervention actions have been essentially characterized by "speed" and "not getting in deep" and have been aimed at weak and small opponents against whom success is easy, and fought in regions where it is easy to break off.
The peoples nurtured by history, nationality, and culture in Asia, however, are completely the opposite of the standard opponents imagined by the United States.
Third, the greatest obstacle encountered by Clintonism in Asia is precedent when, far from achieving successful intervention, the United States has encountered serious failure in this region since World War II.
For Americans, military policy directed at Asia has consistently been the most difficult to design.
Here it is not so much the "victories" in the Gulf and Kosovo wars as rather the lessons of the Korean and Vietnam wars that play the role of historical experience.
As a result, the Americans are unable to apply the Iraq or Kosovo pattern to resolve the problems of this region.
A number of countries with highly developed information technology [IT] have emerged since the 1980's, in the wake of the asymmetrical development of the world information field.
They exploit their monopoly status in information resources and the related industries to impose IT control, penetrate by means of information resources, and dump information products in countries where IT is relatively undeveloped, so as to attain their corresponding political, economic, and military goals.
This is the "information colonialism" phenomenon which this article raises.
The high development of IT, and the full exploitation of information resources and the expansion of their volume have caused explosive growth in the amount of information in the world.
The total volume in 1995 was 2,400 times that of 1985, and the volume available every day now is 6.5 times that in the whole of 1985.
Handling, storing, disseminating, and using the ever-growing information resources has become an urgent problem in the world today.
Political stability, economic growth, and social development depend to a very great extent on the production, dissemination, and application of information.
IT is exported like capital, as an intellectual property right; the information business has become a new growth point; and in addition the development of the information industry is unbalanced -- these provide a hotbed for information colonizing.
According to relevant data, in the global information business, the United States accounts for 92 percent of CPU output and 86 percent of systems and parts, and there are now 113 million Internet customers.
There are nearly 3,000 large databanks in the world, 70 percent of which are in the United States; it can be said that they control most of the markets throughout the world.
In this regard, the French complained back in the 1970's: The entire French databank field is monopolized by the United States; and in the 1980's, Japan exclaimed: Japan may be reduced to the status of America's "information colony."
For a long time now, international political activities and national and regional political activities have been limited within a certain scope, due to the impact of the volume of information disseminated and the speed of dissemination.
In the information society, international political and sociopolitical life is embedded in the computer information network, and all kinds of information media disseminate political events and information to the whole world as they happen, and it is no longer just politicians who take part in and influence politics; political insecurity has thus increased; the boundary between national and international politics tends to become blurred, national political security is affected and hit by international politics in varying degrees, and powerful information countries control information and sway international opinion, resulting in likely injustices.
The economy is the foundation on which a state and nation depends for its existence.
Forty percent of the source of modern economic development and growth comes from the information industry.
Output value of information industries of many developed western countries accounts for 45 to 60 percent of their GNP, whereas in the developing countries the proportion is only about one percent, the scope is narrow, and the quality is poor.
Thus, powerful information countries switch from exporting financial capital to exporting information capital and imposingly occupy the information field in backward countries, thus restricting the development of national information business there.
At the same time they pose a serious threat to the economic security of these countries.
The progress of IT has also sparked changes in the world military scene.
War planning will truly be "the decider" and "the army that conquers without a battle," and the role of the armed forces will be not only to defend national sovereignty and territorial integrity; preserving the security of information territory will also become a new function of the armed forces.
Just after "Windows 95" appeared, the Australian Navy discovered that this software has a mysterious "black box," and once on the Internet, it would quietly send mechanical information to the software headquarters.
And when a "Windows 98" customer registers on the Internet, the system will automatically collect the information in the customer's computer, even personal distinguishing data.
It is also connected to a vast databank which collects information on customers, and when required, this databank can provide the customer's secrets to political, economic, and military organizations.
By means of an internal sequence code, the Pentium III processor can compare the customer with the information that he gathers and decipher the identity and personal secrets of the customer; or they can deliberately leave an embedded virus, and install hidden dangers such as concealed channels and codes that can recover code keys.
All this warns us that these spies on the net are more fearful than the "beauty snake."
At present certain developing countries mainly depend on CPU imports; the Internet regions and names register TCP/IP dissemination agreements are all in US hands and can be "taken out and used" by someone; in these circumstances, the security of the computer net and its information can hardly be guaranteed.
Culture is an important foundation in preserving social stability.
The people of a given nation in a given age are living in a certain cultural pattern and cultivate their own human qualities.
Norms of language, writing, beliefs, and morals have formed the cultural circle of each country and nation.
As the information net develops, countries importing information suffer powerful cultural blows.
On the international network at present, many valuable information resources are in English; thus the English information on the net inevitably disseminates to non-English-speaking countries the modes of thought, behavior norms, and values of the English-speaking countries, dealing blows at their traditional culture, Websites and internet bars have become the new locations where young people receive education and entertainment; how can they choose the good and discard the bad when confronted with a complexity of strange information on the net?
This cannot but arouse concern.
In the information age, information has become a major strategic resource, the information industry has become a country's mainstay industry, information security has become the most important security element, and the information net has become a country's important strategic infrastructure.
Standing at the threshold of the 21st century, people do not have only feelings of happiness; it is evident from the uneven economic development and the countless conflicts and turmoil in the 20th century that high technology is the core of the competition in all-round national strength.
The developed countries have unfolded fierce competition in research and development, centering around "technological hegemony."
The phenomenon of information colonialism will become an important motive cause in future war.
Anyone who does not have information independence and sovereignty will not have true national independence and sovereignty.
Without information security, there can be no national political, economic, and military security.
When mankind entered the industrial age, the Chinese nation had its fill of the bitterness of colonialism and semi-colonialism, and such a state of affairs cannot be restaged when mankind enters the information age.
We must therefore have full rational awareness and strategic countermeasures.
Chairman Jiang has pointed out: "Innovation is the soul of a nation's progress and an inexhaustible motive force for the prosperity and development of a country."
We should establish awareness of our own strength in information, tackle tough problems with the spirit of the "two bombs and one satellite," follow the path of an information industry with Chinese characteristics amid the great tide of world economic integration, intensify basic construction of information resources, and speed up the work of manufacturing computer software and hardware in China.
We should innovate and develop our national information industry, especially the research and development of chips and operational systems, so that China can stand tall amid the world information industry.
We should establish the concept of standing on our own feet.
Those who become masters are not subject to control by others; we should fully exploit the global information network to strengthen the impact of China's information and open up our information space.
At the same time we should build our own backbone state political, military, and economic information network.
We must establish self-defense measures.
With regard to fire walls, circuit devices [lu you qi, 6424 3945 0892], website security devices and other information security items, we should as far as possible not import them if we have them in China.
At the same time, we should make use of the ever-developing informationized household electrical appliances to study people's war in the information age and defeat enemy information attacks [sentence as received].
Hong Kong, 10 February (ZTS) -- Since the enforcement of the Patent Law in 1985, China's patent industry has developed rapidly out of nothing.
On 11 January of this year, the number of patent applications across China topped the 1-million mark, and thus China has entered the world's rank of big powers of patent applications.
China's patent industry has made considerable progress in such areas as patent legislation, patent protection, and training and international exchanges in patent qualified people in a short span of 15 years.
Particularly in the last two years, as China's market economic reform progresses, the number of patent applications at home and abroad has increased by a wide margin.
According to a briefing by a relevant responsible person from the State Intellectual Property Rights Bureau, the number of patent applications China handled in 1998 and 1999 totaled 121,989 and 134,240 or an increase of 6.8 percent and 10 percent respectively from the previous year.
Of the country's total patent applications, the number of patent applications by scientific research units and institutions of higher learning increased by 7 percent and 22 percent respectively, while that of patent applications by enterprises at home also increased by 6.7 percent and 20 percent respectively.
The vigorous development of the patent industry will play a greater role in China's future economic development.
An expert from the State Intellectual Property Rights Bureau stated: Having superiority in patents is an important guarantee for gaining the initiative in competition.
Strengthening patent work is an important measure to carry out strategic readjustment of the Chinese economic structure.
This will help provide economic restructuring with advanced and applied inventions and innovations in large quantities as well as new technology, products, and equipment on the one hand and help the economy maintain relatively strong market competitiveness under patent protection, particularly it will help boost industrial competitiveness.
Achieving a leap in technological development is an important target of China's scientific and technological progress and technological innovation and also the only way to expedite China's modernization.
State Intellectual Property Rights Office Director Jiang Ying also pointed out: It will help vigorously push technological innovation activities among enterprises, scientific research units, and institutions of higher learning to carry out patent work throughout the entire process of technological innovation.
Although China has achieved marked results in its patent industry over the last 15 years, its patents are comparatively limited in terms of technology, quality, and size.
First, the fundamental reason for China's limited patent size lies in its source.
The number of high-quality inventions, that is, inventions that can bring about relatively high benefits, is too limited.
This being the case, the key to solving the problem of patent quantity lies in improving the scientific and technological level as a whole on which China relies for its patents.
Otherwise, in a situation in which the number of research achievements to be patented is limited; their quality is poor, and their capability to generate profits is limited, problems that can be solved are always limited even though patent conceptions are so well popularized.
Second, efforts should be made to solve the problems of improving the quality and efficiency of patent work, lowering the cost of patent applications, and shortening the period of applying patents for inventions.
Third, the actual protection of intellectual property rights should be enhanced.
To spark the desire of scientists and technicians for innovations, it is very important to implement a paten-rewarding mechanism.This will help form a benign circle in technological innovation activities among enterprises.
To encourage its scientific research personnel's enthusiasm for innovations, the Shanghai Petrochemical Engineering Designing Institute of the China Petrochemical Group Corporation formulated relevant provisions on rewarding patents and inventions, stressing that anyone whose patent application is approved by the institute's department in charge of patent will be given an award of 700 yuan and that anyone who clinches a foreign-related patent for his invention will be given an award of 1,000 yuan.
The institute issued a total of 300,000 yuan in awards for patent applicants from 1995 to 1998.
Every time after their patent were implemented, patent holders would have the right to acquire the payment for the implementation of their patented technology.
The payment will be issued cumulatively to patent holders at a rate of between 1.2 percent to 2 percent of the actual profits generated by the technology or products formed through the implementation of their patented technology.
The publication and implementation of these numerous policies has thus powerfully mobilized the enthusiasm of the institute's scientific research personnel for innovations.As China's entry into the World Trade Organization is approaching, patent departments in China are facing greater pressures.
Therefore, it is all the more necessary to enhance the quality and international competitiveness of patent work, further safeguard national sovereignty and economic security, and promote social progress.
News of successes from the Daya Bay Power Station has continued to pour in since the beginning of the new year: --It generated 13.46 billion kilowatt hours of electricity in 1999, creating a new record in annual output for a nuclear power plant. --Guangdong's second nuclear power station -- the Lingao Nuclear Power Station -- which was developed with Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station's accumulation funds, completed its building projects as scheduled. --Two nuclear power generating units of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station recorded an average period of safe operation of 842 days, ranking first in the competition for safe operation with the 56 generating units of the same type of the Electricite de France. --Operation of the No. 1 generating unit of the Daya Bay Power Station, which had operated safely for 307 days in succession, was suspended on 14 January to conduct its sixth reloading and overhaul.
In addition, the No. 2 generating unit operated safely for 318 days in succession and was reloaded and overhauled as planned last year.Achieving safety in operation without suspending the operation of both the machines and the reactors of the two generating units within a reloading cycle, the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station was in the best operation status.
Why Is It That the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station Can Be Ranked Among the Best Nuclear Power Plants in the World?
Liu Xicai, president of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, attributed the achievement to the high starting point, the wise central policy decisions to import advanced and well-developed 1 million kilowatt-class large commercial nuclear power technology and equipment comprehensively and build and manage them in line with the international standards, and the long period of efforts of the staff to persistently conduct innovation, pursue excellency, and catch up with and surpass the advanced levels of the world.
Establish the Modern Enterprise System and Successfully Probe the Way of Scientific Management of Enterprises in Which the State Has a Controlling Interest.
The two 1 million kilowatt-class nuclear power generating units of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station are like two "money printing machines" operating around the clock, each of which creates more than $1 million in output value every day.
The Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station earned $560 million in foreign exchange and created 2.3 billion yuan in profits and taxes in 1999.
With Such an Enormous Amount of Profits, Is the Daya Bay Power Station Very Lavish in Spending?
When briefed by staff of the Daya Bay Power Station, the reporters found that the briefing materials they used were printed on both sides while those distributed to us were printed on one side only.
To feed our curiosity, they explained that printing on both sides of the paper of materials for internal use was to reduce cost, and printing on one side of the paper of materials for external use was to show respect to their guests.
The sense of cost and the extent of meticulous management of the staff of the Daya Bay Power Station can be seen from this!
The official name of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station is Guangdong Nuclear Power Joint Venture Company, of which 75 percent of the stocks are owned by the state and the remaining 25 percent by Hong Kong China Electric Power Company.
Most authoritative in the joint venture company is not its president but its rules, systems, and procedures.
The joint venture company has strict rules, systems, and execution procedures for all its work, from the procurement of staple materials and the suspension, reloading, and overhaul of nuclear power generating units to the distribution of labor insurance goods and small gifts to guests.
If not permitted by systems and procedures, even its president cannot use a penny or any material.
Degai [name as transliterated], a foreign expert who had worked in the Daya Bay Power Station, said that in a certain sense, what the power station produced was not electricity but documents, because everything had rules to follow and was restricted by procedures.
Implementation of rules, systems, and work procedures hinges on man.
To prevent and correct the practice of abusing power to violate systems and procedures, the Daya Bay Power Station has learned from advanced enterprise management expertise from abroad and established an auditing department directly responsible to its board of directors.
Chief Auditor Xu Chuanshun told the reporters that the power station's auditing department was not only a "Mr. account examiner" responsible for past auditing of the revenue and the expenditure, but it was also a doctor in charge of the operation of the company and a risk adviser, who carried out the internal control function and management auditing and had the authority to audit any department of the company.
The Influence of the Auditing Department Can Be Seen Everywhere in the Daya Bay Power Station.
The joint venture company's Xerox machines were reduced from 53 to 36 last year because the auditing department discovered that the actual volume of copies printed by the company's Xerox machines was lower than the suggested volume of the machine provider, which was a waste of resources.
More than 300 tonnes of substandard concrete iron placed on the work site of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station were not transported out.The auditing department issued a notice of correction as soon as it discovered this.
A Nuclear Safety Culture Deeply Rooted in People's Hearts, a Protective Screen More Secure Than Steel-Reinforced Concrete Nuclear Power is a clean and highly efficient source of energy.
However, 100 percent safety should be ensured.
The Daya Bay Power Station's nuclear reactors, which are of the world's safest type, have three protective screens to prevent nuclear leakage even in earthquake or hit by a high-speed small plane.Even with such capability, however, the power station has still put nuclear safety first and never lowered vigilance.
It has established a virtual protective screen more secure than steel reinforced concrete -- a nuclear safety culture deeply rooted in people's hearts.
In the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, strict procedures should be followed even in repairing a simple valve: filling in a work slip on what the problem is, by whom, when, and where it is found, and the deadline for the repair; writing an explanatory memorandum in which the maintenance engineer writes down the position of the valve in the blueprint, its function, his opinions on the repair, and the brand of the new valve to replace the old; issuing an isolation notice instructing personnel concerned to close down relevant systems; and filling in a repair record as soon as tests are conducted after the maintenance personnel fix the problem.
The Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station has a clear regulation which permits errors in work but not lies to cover up the errors, because lies will lead to still greater mishaps or hidden dangers.
On one occasion, leakage of lubricant was discovered on a gas turbine after a grade-seven maintenance worker completed the overhaul of its filter screen.
An inspection showed that an insertion ring was missing.
The worker said that he did not receive the insertion ring, but the power station's strict system of registration of material inflow and outflow proved the worker was lying.
The director of the production department immediately pointed out in a serious manner that errors in work were nothing to be afraid of as long as people clearly explained the true situation and took measures in a timely manner; but those who lied and caused a hidden danger in production safety would be dismissed as soon as this was discovered.
Sensing the seriousness of the problem, the worker admitted that he dropped the insertion ring into the filter screen out of carelessness.
The maintenance department immediately organized personnel to conduct analysis and study and adopted timely measures to eliminate the hidden danger.
Since then, an atmosphere has been established in the power station in which people begin with speaking the truth when they want to correct an error.
It is in such detailed workflow, strict rules and systems, and the sense of safety deeply rooted in workers' hearts that the nuclear safety culture of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station is reflected.
Outside the main control room of the No. 1 generating unit, the reporters saw some banners, reading "do everything successfully at one stroke, make every person a protective screen" and "it is safety not the market that decides everything."
The nuclear safety culture deeply rooted in people's hearts has laid a solid foundation for the safe operation of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station.
In 1999, the number of unplanned suspensions of operation of the two nuclear reactors and power generating units at the power station was "0," and all the major operation indicators of the power station reached the world's advanced level.
Using the Nuclear Power Station to Support Nuclear Power Development and Achieving Continuous Development, the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station Has Become the Incubator of Guangdong's Nuclear Power Development.
"Using nuclear power stations to support nuclear power development and achieving continuous development" is a principle that central leading comrades formulated for Guangdong's nuclear power development.
To suit this purpose, the State Council decided to establish the Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Company to control the stocks of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station on behalf of the state and to actively use the capital and manpower resources of the power station to continuously develop Guangdong's nuclear power industries.
Zan Yunlong, the major planner and builder of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, was appointed chairman of the board of directors and concurrently president of the Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Company.
Represented by Zan Yunlong, the staff of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station deeply understand and resolutely implement the central decision on turning the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station into a incubator of Guangdong's nuclear power development.They are building the second nuclear power station -- the Lingao Nuclear Power Station -- on the Daya Bay coast and are actively creating favorable conditions for the construction of Guangdong's third nuclear power station -- the Yangjiang Nuclear Power Station.
The No. 2 reactor of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station was successfully built on 7 December 1999, with the vault -- 37 meters in diameter and more than 160 tonnes in weight -- of the nuclear island being slowly lifted by a large crane and accurately placed in the predetermined position to successfully connect with the body of the nuclear island.
By then, the building projects of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station had been successfully completed, and the main part of the project entered the period of installation.
As a notable distinction from the construction of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, few high-nosed and blue-eyed foreigners are seen at the work site of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station.Decision-making power has been basically achieved in the earthworks construction of the main part of the project.
According to Fan Heming, president of the Lingao Nuclear Power Limited Company, who was transferred from the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, judging from the technological index, the two 1-million-kilowatt pressurized water reactors under construction were not a simple "duplication" of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station, but are an improvement based on the technological foundation of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station.
In the construction of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station, however, Chinese personnel are the main force, and only a few foreign experts have been invited to serve as advisers.The overall design, project management and construction, equipment installation and tests, and production preparations and training have been by and large conducted by Chinese personnel independently; and significant progress has also been made in the domestic manufacturing of the equipment of the power station.Fifteen percent of the total cost of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station is borne by domestic manufacturing enterprises, and the corresponding technological content is as high as over 70 percent, thus making contributions to domestic technological advance and expansion of domestic demand.
In the construction of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station, the principle of "putting safety and quality first" has been strictly implemented, and quality, progress, investment control has been exercised across the board to ensure that best quality and efficiency are achieved in construction and equipment.
In January last year, the company sent a group of experts, including two academicians, to Europe to inspect equipment manufacturing.It discovered a quality problem in an important component which was being built.Fan Heming went to Europe immediately to discuss with the manufacturer on production of a new component.
Zan Yunlung, chairman of the board of directors and concurrently president of the Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Company, told the reporters with confidence: "With sufficient capital and personnel resources of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station and independent construction experience of the Lingao Nuclear Power Station, Guangdong's nuclear power industry has entered a golden age of development."
Beijing 11 Feb (Xinhua) -- Over the past year, in accordance with the policy of "peaceful reunification and one country two systems," President Jiang Zemin's eight-point proposal, and the principle of intensifying exchanges, promoting friendship, expanding consensus, developing cooperation, and promoting reunification, the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference [CPPCC] has actively carried out all kinds of work, extensively united with Hong Kong, Macao and, the Taiwan people, as well as Overseas Chinese, and played an important role in advancing the great cause of the reunification of the motherland.
The return of Macao to the motherland last year was a major event of the Chinese nation.The National CPPCC Committee successfully organized and positively participated in a series of activities marking the handover of Macao.
